Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  The three types of gains that are achievable through the use of multiple antenna systems in LTE are the diversity gain, the array gain, and the spatial multiplexing gain.
b.  Diversity reception helps to obtain a flatter received signal (lower chances of deep fades) by combining multiple fading signals received at/from multiple antennas.
*c.  Alamouti coding is an example method for achieving array gain. 
d.  Eight of the nine PDSCH transmission modes in LTE and LTE-Advanced rely on the use of multiple antennas. 
e.  Open loop transmit diversity is suitable to be used for velocities higher than 30 km/hour.

Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Receive diversity is a more suitable technique for the uplink rather than the downlink. 
b. In a receive diversity system, if receiver antennas are sufficiently separated, fading will be independent, and combined signal will be more flatter.  
c. Closed loop transmit diversity requires the transmission of PMI feedback from the UE to the eNB.
d. Goal of the PMI feedback in closed loop transmit diversity is to adjust the phases of the signals transmitted through different antennas, so that they do not cancel each other at the receiver.
*e.  PMI feedback does not depend on the central frequency of transmitted subcarriers. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  In an open-loop transmit diversity scheme, Alamouti coding is typically used to obtain a flatter signal at the receiver, without the need of a specific PMI feedback from the receiver. 
b.  In a MIMO spatial multiplexing system with NT transmit and NR receive antennas, peak rate is proportional to min(NT,NR).
*c.  Open loop spatial multiplexing requires transmission of rank indicator (RI) feedback from the eNB to the UE. 
d.  If the channel matrix H is not a full-rank matrix, achievable peak rate is no longer proportional with the min(NT,NR). 
e.  Rank indicator (RI) can be obtained through the channel estimation process, and it corresponds to the number of symbols that the receiver can successfully receive in a spatial multiplexing based MIMO transmission.

Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  In a closed loop spatial multiplexing system, both RI and PMI are estimated through the channel estimation process at the UE, and they are transmitted to the eNB as a feedback message. 
*b.  In a closed loop spatial multiplexing system, if the RI = 1, the eNB transmits the same exact symbol s1 in both antennas, and does not use any information from the PMI feedback.
c.  LTE uses eigenvalue decomposition of the channel matrix H to obtain the precoding matrix at the transmitter (eNB), and post-coding matrix at the receiver (UE). 
d.  Precoding matrix receives the symbol information from the layer mapping and maps a linear combination of these symbols to different transmit antennas.
e.  The channel matrix H=[1 2;  2 4] is not full-rank and can not be used in a 2x2 spatial multiplexing mode. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a.  PMI feedback in LTE transmits all individual matrix elements of the precoding matrix F  from UE to eNB. 
b.  If the eigenvalues of a channel matrix H are different, different modulation/coding schemes may be used at different transmission layers (corresponding to different eigenvalues). 
c.  For a spatial multiplexing MIMO system to work efficiently, separation between the antennas should be large. 
d.  A spatial multiplexing MIMO system works better in a non-line-of-sight environment than a line-of-sight environment due to the characteristics of the channel matrix H in those environments.
e.  A minimum mean square error (MMSE) MIMO receiver works better than a zero-forcing (ZF) MIMO receiver in high noise/interference scenario. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  In uplink multiuser MIMO, there is no need to transmit a precoding matrix. 
b.  Uplink multiuser MIMO can be implemented with inexpensive UEs that only have single antenna. 
c.  Beamforming increases the coverage area of an eNB. 
*d.  Beamforming works best if the antennas are separated from each other. 
e.  In a 4x4 spatial multiplexing MIMO transmission with a full-rank channel matrix, four independent data streams are formed from the transmitter to the receiver, with no coupling between any of the streams. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
7.  Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Rank of a channel matrix H indicates the number of usable eigenvalues, and hence the number of independent data streams between the transmitter and the receiver. 
b.  If a channel matrix H is ill-conditioned, reconstructed symbols corresponding to smaller eigenvalues will be badly corrupted by noise.  
c.  Codebook in a MIMO system includes a list of the possible precoding matrices that can be used by the transmitter. 
d.  Same codebook index (PMI) may correspond to different precoding matrices depending on the value of the rank indicator (RI) variable. 
*e.  If codebook index is represented by 4 bits in a PMI feedback message from the receiver to the transmitter, a maximum of 4 precoding matrices can be used for a given RI. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In LTE Release-8, diversity processing and spatial multiplexing with a maximum of NT=4 and NR=4 antennas are supported. 
*b. If the antennas are not close enough to each other in a spatial multiplexing system, channel elements will be correlated, channel matrix H will be ill-conditioned, spatial multiplexing becomes unusable, and the transmitter has to fall back to diversity processing. 
c. For fast moving mobiles, PMI becomes quickly outdated, and hence open-loop spatial multiplexing is preferable. 
d. In an uplink multiuser MIMO (MU-MIMO) system, the eNB can freely choose UEs to pair (schedule in the same resource blocks) in order to guarantee a well behaved channel matrix.
e. Uplink MU-MIMO increases the overall cell throughput. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Uplink MU-MIMO is introduced into LTE in Release-10, along with uplink single-user MIMO. 
b. Implementation of the downlink MU-MIMO is different than that of uplink MU-MIMO, since PMI feedback is needed in the former. 
c. In dual layer beamforming, two users targeted by different beams can be scheduled in the same resource blocks. 
d. In practice, an eNB is likely to use two sets of antennas; one set where the antennas are closely spaced (for beamforming purposes), and another set where antennas are widely spaced (for diversity processing and spatial multiplexing purposes). 
e. An eNB can continuously steer the beams to different users by varying the weights applied to different antennas. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 10 Multiple Antenna Techniques
10. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. It is possible to increase the range in the uplink through applying receive beamforming at an eNB.  
b. There are two techniques to determine antenna weights in receive beamforming: reference signal technique and direction of arrival technique. 
*c. In transmit beamforming, both in TDD and FDD modes, eNB requires different antenna weights in the uplink and the downlink. 
d. Dual layer beamforming can be implemented using two parallel sets of antenna weights, each set targeting a different user. 
e. Difference of downlink multiuser MIMO from dual layer beamforming is that UEs send PMI feedback to the eNB for weight calculation. 