Points: 11.2 Title: Module 14 Practical Deployment Aspects
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A-GNSS positioning technique for LTE UEs has very good positioning accuracy and reasonable availability.
*b. A-GNSS is a cellular network based positioning system with the assistance data provided by satellites.
c. OTDOA is a useful alternative to A-GNSS in dense eNB environments where the satellite signals cannot be received.
d. Cell-ID techniques have reasonably good estimate of the UE location in urban environments with dense eNBs.
e. LTE conformance tests are often performed by an external organization, such as a certified conformance test laboratory.

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 14 Practical Deployment Aspects
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. OTDOA positioning technique requires a UE to detect at least two different eNBs with high probability.
b. OTDOA requires the use of special positioning subframes to improve the hearability of the neighboring eNBs.
c. Positioning reference symbols (PRSs) enable a larger frequency reuse than CRSs.
d. Location servers provide the exact locations of the eNBs and their PRS sequence.
e. Selection of the inter-frequency measurement gap repetition period in LTE discontinuous reception (DRX) procedure involves a trade-off. If the gap repetition period is smaller, then it yields a shorter cell identification delay, but a greater interruption in data transmission and reception. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 14 Practical Deployment Aspects
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The three main multipath phenomena are: propagation path-loss, shadow fading and multipath fading.
b. Multipath fading may yield as much as 30-40 dB instantaneous degradation as a UE moves (very fast variations).
*c. In the IMT-advanced channel model maximum number of BS antennas is 8 and maximum number of UE antennas is 4.
d. LTE conformance test uses ITU channel models EPA, EVA, ETU.
e. LTE conformance tests: include propagation conditions for two high-speed train scenarios at 300 and 350 km/h, with different Doppler shift trajectories.

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 14 Practical Deployment Aspects
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Error vector magnitude (EVM) is a measure of the distortion introduced by the RF imperfections of practical implementations.
b. In LTE, out of band emissions are defined by means of spectrum emission masks and adjacent channel leakage ratio requirements.
c. In RRC idle mobility, RSRP/RSRQ measurements by a UE may be used autonomously for cell reselection, and RSRP/RSRQ measurements may also be reported during RRC connected mode.
*d. Using the inter-frequency measurements, UE identifies E-UTRA cells on the same carrier frequency as the serving cell.
e. During LTE conformance tests,  measurements such as signal generators and radio channel emulators are used to measure the performance metrics such as power, voltage, sensitivity, Bit Error Rate (BER), Block Error Rate (BLER), throughput or handover success rate.

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 14 Practical Deployment Aspects
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. The coverage area of a cell is dictated by the CQI feedback from a UE.
b. RSRQ is the ratio of RSRP to RSSI where RSSI is the total received power, including interference from all sources and it is measured over all the REs 
c. In LTE (Release 8. RSRP and RSRQ are important parameters for performing handovers within E-UTRAN, and from other RATs to E-UTRAN.
d. In LTE Release 8, RSRQ is applicable only in RRC_CONNECTED state.
e. Network may request UE to perform blind handover to cell which is unknown to UE. In this case measurements reports are not required by the network and also results in a longer interruption time since the UE has to detect the target cell prior to accessing it.

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 14 Practical Deployment Aspects
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In full-duplex mode, communication can happen simultaneously in the downlink and the uplink, whereas in half-duplex mode, downlink and uplink communication happens at mutually exclusive times.
*b. TDD may require duplexers to provide isolation between the inbound and outbound signals on the different carrier frequencies.
c. Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio (ACIR) is derived from the transmitter’s Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR) and the receiver’s Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS).
d. If the guard band between two transmission bands is not sufficiently large, then the receiver performance is significantly affected if the transmitter/receiver are close to each other.
e. Two measurement gap periodicities are possible in LTE; they have measurement gap repetition period of 40 ms and 80 ms, respectively. In both modes, measurement gap length is 6 ms. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 14 Practical Deployment Aspects
7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a) When two transceivers A and B each utilize the same antenna for transmission and reception, the frequency-domain transfer function H(f) (or equivalently the time-domain impulse response h(t)) observed at B when A is transmitting will be the same as the transfer function observed at A when B is transmitting. This is called channel reciprocity.
*b) FDD systems can easily exploit reciprocity in a radio communications link. 
c) In order to realize a true state of reciprocity between a base station and a UE, the feed-forward loop delay must be within the coherence time of the channel.
d) Exploitation of channel reciprocity for LTE TDD is possible in certain applications. These include uplink transmit antenna selection (using only amplitude information) and non-codebook-based downlink pre-coding (also using phase information).
e) Frequency division dupplexing (FDD) is a full-duplex mode, while time division duplexing (TDD) is a half-duplex mode. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 14 Practical Deployment Aspects
8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A combined network of macrocells and small cells like picocells and femtocells is called as Heterogeneous Network.
b. Pico cells are deployed in the cell edge areas to offload cell edge users with low SINR to the pico cell and therefore the system capacity can be increased.
*c. The SINR after a cell reselection or handover of a UE is always improved when a range expansion bias is added to pico-cell link qualities for that UE.
d. Time-domain ICIC technique is used to reduce the interference where some of the macro-cell subframes are blanked to reduce the interference to the pico-cell so that it can schedule users in these subframes.
e. A poorly configured RACH may result in higher call setup and handover delays due to frequent RACH collisions. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 14 Practical Deployment Aspects
9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Automatic Neighbor Relation (ANR) function relieves the network operator from manually managing relations between neighboring cells.
b. Objective of mobility load balancing optimization SON feature is to counteract local traffic load imbalance between neighboring cells by adjusting the cell reselection/handover parameters.
*c. The parameters like adjusting the cell reselection/handover parameters for load balancing is communicated among the neighboring eNBs using the S1 interface.
d. The eNB (client) sends a ‘RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST’ message to request a load report from some of its neighbors. This information can be used for adjustment of the coverage area and off-loading UEs among neighboring cells.
e. In LTE Rel. 9 booster small-area cells placed on top of macrocells can be switched on/off depending on the traffic demand in that cell. This provides energy savings. 