Points: 12.5 Title: Module 1 Introduction
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Three major factors for increasing the wireless capacity are spectral efficiency enhancement, use of larger spectrum, and network densification. 
*b.  Spectral efficiency enhancement is commonly seen as the most influential factor for future wireless capacity enhancements, and it is expected to improve the wireless capacity by at least 56 times within the next 10 years.
c.  1G wireless systems were based on analog technology. 
d.  2G cellular systems are commonly known as GSM, and have widespread acceptance around the world.
e.  Regulatory bodies (ITU-R and regional/national regulators such as FCC)  decide which parts of the spectrum and how much bandwidth may be used by different wireless technologies. 

Points: 12.5 Title: Module 1 Introduction
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Shannon capacity equation gives the maximum achievable capacity for a given bandwidth and SINR.
b. 3G wireless systems were based on variations of CDMA, and could provide data rates up to 2 Mbps.  
c. One of the major features of LTE is that it was designed from the start with the goal of evolving the radio access technology towards a packet switched architecture.
d. System architecture evolution (SAE) involves non-radio aspects of 4G networks, and includes the evolved packet core (EPC). 
*e. With the introduction of LTE, standardization and improvement for 2G and 3G systems within 3GPP have stopped. 

Points: 12.5 Title: Module 1 Introduction
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. LTE Release-8 can support downlink data rates on the order of 1 Gbps. 
b. In LTE, user plane latency should be smaller than 10 ms, and connection set-up latency should be smaller than 100 ms.
c. Peak rates in LTE generally scale with the amount of spectrum used, and (for MIMO systems) with minimum of the number of transmit/receive antennas. 
d. Peak rate is defined as the maximum throughput that can be achieved per user, assuming whole bandwidth is allocated to a single user with the highest possible modulation/coding order, and when the maximum possible number of antennas are used at the transmitter/receiver. 
e. Peak rates, while an important indicator, may not be a key differentiator for the success of a particular wireless technology, since they are not typically achieved. 

Points: 12.5 Title: Module 1 Introduction
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In system-level LTE simulations, multi-cell configurations are considered with data transmission to/from multiple mobile users. 
*b. Voice over IP (VoIP) services in LTE can operate under large time delays.
c. LTE is required to support UE velocities up to 500 km/h (e.g., bullet trains).
d. Typical cell radius in LTE is up to 5 km; up to 100 km cell radius may be possible for wide area coverage.
e. In broadcast mode of LTE, system throughput is limited to what is achievable by the worst-case users. 

Points: 12.5 Title: Module 1 Introduction
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  LTE is required to support transition between RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED modes in less than 100 ms. 
b.  Three major technologies that are used in LTE are multicarrier technology, multiple-antenna technology, and application of packet-switching to the radio interface. 
c.  In OFDM, division of the spectrum into multiple narrowband subcarriers yields robustness against time-dispersion. 
d.  Inter-symbol interference due to multipath interference can be prevented in OFDM through the use of a cyclic prefix.
*e.  Dividing a wideband transmitted symbol into multiple narrowband subcarriers necessitate the use of high-complexity equalization techniques in OFDM. 

Points: 12.5 Title: Module 1 Introduction
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Peak-to-average power ratio of an OFDM signal may be very high. 
*b.  PAPR problem in OFDM causes a bigger problem at the eNB, than at the UE. 
c.  SC-FDMA waveform has better PAPR characteristics than OFDM, and hence used in the uplink of Release-8 3GPP LTE systems. 
d.  One important difference of SC-FDMA from OFDM is that there are additional IFFT/FFT blocks at the transmitter/receiver. 
e.  SC-FDMA uses incorporation of a guard interval at the start of each transmitted symbol, in order to facilitate low-complexity frequency-domain equalization at the receiver. 

Points: 12.5 Title: Module 1 Introduction
7. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a.  Three types of gains obtained through multiple antennas in LTE are the diversity gain, array gain, and spatial multiplexing gain.  
b.  In LTE, goal is to transmit very short packets, having a duration on the order of coherence time of the fast fading channel.  
*c.  Packet size in circuit-switched resource allocation are approximately the same as those in the packet-switched resource allocation. 
d.  In LTE, packet duration is reduced to 1 ms, from the packet size of 2 ms of HSDPA, its predecessor technology. 
e.  Short packet duration in LTE enables link adaptation of modulation and code rate. 

Points: 12.5 Title: Module 1 Introduction
8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In Release 8 and Release 9 of LTE, a total of 5 UE categories are supported, with achievable downlink data rates ranging from 10 Mbps up to 300 Mbps. 
b. 64-QAM modulation is supported in the downlink for UE-categories 1-5, while it is only supported by the UE categority-5 in the uplink. 
c. All UE categories in LTE Release 8/9 should support at least two receive antennas.  
*d. In Release-8 of LTE, maximum number of downlink MIMO layers that can be received by a UE is 8.
e. Support for a broadcast mode based on single frequency network type transmissions has been introduced in Release-9 of LTE. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 2 Network Architecture and Protocols
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  LTE and service architecture evolution (SAE) are collectively referred as the evolved packet system (EPS). 
*b.  SAE refers to the evolution of radio access within the EPS and it includes the evolved packet core (EPC).
c.  EPS uses the concept of EPS bearers to route IP traffic from a gateway in the packet data network (PDN) to the UE. 
d.  EPS provides the user with IP connectivity to a PDN.
e.  EPS bearers in LTE are typically associated with a QoS. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 2 Network Architecture and Protocols
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. In LTE, multiple bearers are not allowed to be established for a UE. 
b. An eNB is connected to the mobility management entity (MME) in the EPC through an S1 interface.  
c. An MME handles NAS security, idle state mobility handling, and EPS bearer control.
d. Protocols running on an eNB in LTE are RRC, PDCP, RLC, MAC, and PHY. 
e. An eNB is considered to be within the E-UTRAN, while a PDN gateway is considered to be within the EPC. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 2 Network Architecture and Protocols
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The MME creates a UE context when a UE is turned on, which includes dynamic information such as the list of bearers that are established and the terminal capabilities. 
b. The MME retains the UE context and the information about the established bearers during the idle periods of a UE. 
*c. During the idle mode, a UE sends an update message to the network to report its latest location whenever the UE moves to a new cell. 
d. MME is responsible for keeping track of the user locations while the UE is in the idle mode. 
e. A UE moves into an idle mode to reduce overhead/processing of all UE related information. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 2 Network Architecture and Protocols
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. UE updates the network whenever it moves to a new tracking area (TA), using a tracking area update (TAU) message. 
b. A tracking area may be composed of many cells which is a design parameter by an operator; larger number of cells reduces the overhead due to frequent TAU transmissions by the UE, while a smaller number  of cells improves the search process of UE in case of a paging message. 
*c. When a downlink data is intended to a UE during its idle mode, an MME sends a paging message to the specific eNB that the UE is located, and that eNB pages the UE over the radio interface. 
d. After receiving a paging message, a UE performs a service request procedure to move into RRC_CONNECTED state. 
e. UEs without regular access to the network (e.g., without a USIM) are allowed to access to the network in case of emergency calls. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 2 Network Architecture and Protocols
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. E-UTRAN consists of a network of eNBs.
*b. In E-UTRAN, the eNBs communicate to each other through the S1 interface. 
c. For a regular user, there is no centralized controller in E-UTRAN, and its architecture is said to be flat; e.g., the eNBs communicate among each other to handle  the mobility of a UE. 
d. Non-access stratum (NAS) protocols run between the UEs and the EPC.
e. Radio related responsibilities of E-UTRAN are radio resource management, header compression, security, positioning, and connectivity to the EPC.

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 2 Network Architecture and Protocols
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  As opposed to earlier generations, LTE integrates the radio controller function into the eNB. 
b.  Distributed control in LTE eliminates the need for a high-availability and processing-intensive controller, reduces the latency, and improves efficiency. 
*c.  In LTE, a UE can connect to multiple nodes during a handover, which is referred as soft handover. 
d.  A drawback of a flat architecture is that as the UE moves, the network must transfer all information related to the UE from one eNB to another (i.e., the UE context, and any buffered data).  
e.  There are mechanisms in LTE which rely on the use of the X2 interface to avoid loss of data during handover. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 2 Network Architecture and Protocols
7. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a.  A network run by an operator in a country is referred as a public land mobile network (PLMN).  
b.  A roaming user is connected to the E-UTRAN, MME, and S-GW of the visited LTE network.  
c.  LTE/SAE allows the P-GW of either the visited or the home network (allows access to the home operator's services even while in a visited network) to be used during a roaming procedure. 
*d.  The radio resource control (RRC) protocol runs in the user plane, and it controls the transition between the RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED states of a UE, and handles the cell selection and handover procedures. 
e.  In LTE, multiple bearers with different QoS requirements may be established for the same UE. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 2 Network Architecture and Protocols
8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Dedicated transmission resources are permanently allocated for minimum guaranteed bit rate (GBR) bearers and they have application such as VoIP. 
b. Non-GBR bearers have applications such as web browsing and FTP transfer. 
c. A class identifier for a bearer shows the priority of a bearer, with respect to packet delay budget and acceptable packet loss rate. 
*d. S1 interface can not be used for intra-LTE mobility (handover between eNBs). 
e. Seamless mobility minimizes the interruption time during the move of the UE. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 2 Network Architecture and Protocols
9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Lossless handover tolerates no loss of data.  
*b. Source eNB can not prepare more than one other eNB for mobility conditions.
c. Concepts of "too late" or "too  early" handover have been defined in LTE Rel. 9. 
d. Load balancing, interference coordination and uplink interference management  are handled through the X2 interface in LTE, which facilitates message exchanges among eNBs. 
e. List of all the recent few calls, along with the visited cells by a UE, can be transferred from one eNB to another.


Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Radio Resource Control (RRC)  is the name of the protocol through which E-UTRAN controls a UE's behavior. 
b. NAS control protocols handle PLMN selection, tracking area update, paging, authentication, and EPS bearer establishment at the evolved packet core (EPC). 
*c. RRC_CONNECTED is the RRC state in which a UE performs cell selection and reselection.
d. Cell reselection process during RRC_IDLE takes into account the priority of each applicable frequency/RAT, SINR, and the cell status (whether a cell is barred or reserved).
e. System information (SI) transmitted by an eNB includes parameters to control cell (re)selection process during RRC_IDLE mode.

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. RRC_CONNECTED facilitates the transfer of unicast downlink/uplink data through shared data channels.
*b. Discontinuous reception (DRX) helps a UE to improve the data rate during RRC_CONNECTED mode. 
c. A control channel in LTE facilitates dynamic allocation of transmission resources in time / frequency. 
d. During RRC_CONNECTED, following information are provided by a UE to the network: UE buffer status, UE downlink channel quality, and neighboring cell measurement information. 
e. Mobility during RRC_IDLE mode is UE-controlled (cell re-selection), while mobility during RRC_CONNECTED mode is E-UTRAN controlled (handover). 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
*a. A UE always selects the cell with the best link quality for camping regardless of the priorities of the cells. 
b. In most cases, link quality is the primary criteria for both cell selection and handover. 
c. Mobility mechanisms in RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED modes should be consistent to avoid ping-pongs. 
d. For inter-frequency and inter-RAT cell reselection, UE capability, subscriber type, and call type may be important criteria to select the best cell. 
e. Cell-specific default values of priorities for different frequency bands are provided to a UE from E-UTRAN through the system information (SI) messages. 

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. During connected mode, E-UTRAN (not the UE) decides to which cell a UE should hand over in order to maintain the radio link. 
b. E-UTRAN, while deciding which cell to hand-over a user, takes into account factors including radio link quality, UE capability, subscriber type, and access restrictions. 
c. E-UTRAN configures a UE to report measurements of the candidate target cells for handover purposes. 
*d. E-UTRAN can not force a UE to make a handover to a particular cell without any measurement reports from that UE. 
e. LTE is based on hard-handover, where a UE can not be connected to two cells simultaneously (for handover purposes).  

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. During handover, the serving eNB for a UE requests a target eNB to prepare for a handover. 
*b. Source eNB is not allowed to prepare more than one target eNB for handover.  
c. Source eNB provides RRC context information about the UE's capabilities  to the target cell during handover preparation. 
d. LTE also supports a UE by itself to decide connecting to a target cell and request the connection to be continued (only after loss of the connection to the source cell). 
e. In a successful handover, target eNB sends handover command to the source eNB, which is passed to the UE through RRCConnectionReconfiguration message. 

6. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a. E-UTRAN can configure a UE to report measurement information for supporting UE mobility. 
b. Possible measurement configuration elements signaled by the E-UTRAN to the UE (through RRCConnectionReconfiguration message) are as follows: measurement objects, reporting configurations, measurement identities, quantity configurations, and measurement gaps. 
c. A measurement object defines where a certain UE should perform measurements (e.g., carrier frequencies, cells, etc.)
d. Reporting configurations signaled in a RRCConnectionReconfiguration message by the E-UTRAN include the criteria on when to trigger a measurement report. 
*e. A UE can only provide measurement reports requested by the E-UTRAN, and can not provide measurement reports not listed by the E-UTRAN (but detected by the UE).

7. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a. A UE triggers a measurement report event when one or more cells meet a specified entry condition. 
b. A UE can trigger a measurement report if the serving cell link quality becomes better or worse than an absolute threshold. 
*c. In addition to events A1-A5 for measurement report triggering within the same RAT, there are also five other events B1-B5 for measurement report triggering for inter-RAT mobility. 
d. E-UTRAN may influence the entry condition to a measurement reporting event, e.g. through setting SINR thresholds or offsets. 
e. An entry condition should be satisfied at least for the duration of a time-to-trigger before a UE can send a measurement report to the serving eNB. 

8. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a. In LTE, access stratum provides the information on available public line mobile networks (PLMNs), while the non-access stratum handles PLMN selection. 
*b. When a UE camps on a selected cell, it acquires the system information (SI) broadcasted by the camped cell, as well as the system information broadcasted by all the neighboring cells. 
c. During cell selection, UE searches for the best cell on all the supported carrier frequencies and all the supported RATs. 
d. One of the important requirements for cell selection procedure at the UE is that it should not take too long. 
e. The network can identify which frequencies/RATs to measure in order to narrow down candidate cells for camping on. 

9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Cell selection criterion in LTE is known as the Z-criterion, and it is fulfilled when the cell selection receive level and quality level are below a threshold. 
b. Cell selection parameters to be used by a UE are broadcast by the E-UTRAN in the SIB1 message. 
c. Once a UE camps on a suitable cell, it starts the cell reselection process. 
d. For cell re-selection, a UE first evaluates the frequencies of all RATs based on their priorities, and then compares the cells on relevant frequencies based on their radio link quality (using a ranking criterion), and finally verifies accessibility of a target cell for potentially camping on it. 
e. If camping on a certain cell is restricted, UE chooses the next best cell from the list of cells based on their radio link qualities. 

10. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. During cell ranking, a UE ranks intra-frequency cells and the cells on other frequencies (having equal priority and which fulfill the S-criterion) using a criterion known as R-criterion.
b. In the R-criterion, the reference signal received powers (RSRPs) of the serving and candidate cells (subject to biasing by individual hysterisis offsets) are ranked from the highest to the lowest. 
c. A UE selects the highest-ranked candidate cell which is ranked better than the serving cell for at least a threshold time duration.
*d. The cell reselection parameters are independent from the speed of a UE. 
e. UE speed in LTE is estimated from the number of cell reselections/handovers within a defined period, and can be one of the three categories: high-speed, normal-speed, and low-speed.


Ch. 4: User Plane Protocols

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a.  Radio resource control (RRC) is an important part of user plane protocols. 
b. At a transmitter side, each protocol layer in LTE receives a service data unit (SDU) from an upper layer, and delivers a protocol data unit (PDU) to the lower unit. 
c. Packet data convergence protocol in user plane handles header compression/decompression, security functions, handover functions, and discard of user plane data due to timeout.
d.  During seamless handover, no context has to be transferred between source/target eNBs.
e.  Seamless handover is used for applications which are reasonably tolerant of losses but less tolerant of delay, such as voice services. 

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Lossless handover uses sequence numbers embedded into PDCP data PDUs to ensure that they are delivered in sequence.
b.  Lossless handover is used for delay tolerant services, such as file download. 
*c.  Lossless handover does not impact the throughput of a link (when compared to seamless handover). 
d.  During a lossless handover, some packets may need to be transferred from the source eNB to a target eNB. 
e.  Lossless handover is applied for user plane radio bearers that are mapped on RLC acknowledge mode (AM). 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a.  Radio link control (RLC) is located between PDCP and MAC layers. 
b. Main functions of RLC include segmentation and reassembly of upper layer packets, retransmission to recover from packet losses, and reordering of packets for in-sequence reception after HARQ operation. 
c.  Only one RLC entity exists per radio bearer. 
d.  RLC has three modes: transparent mode, unacknowledged mode, and acknowledge mode. 
*e.  Transparent mode of RLC supports HARQ operation. 

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Unacknowledged mode in RLC is typically used by delay-sensitive error-tolerant applications. 
b.  Most important feature of acknowledge mode in RLC is the support for retransmissions. 
c.  Acknowledged mode is mainly utilized by error-sensitive delay-tolerant non-real-time applications, such as web browsing, file download, and streaming (if delay requirement is not too stringent). 
*d.  Radio resource control (RRC) messages in control plane typically use transparent mode in RLC. 
e.  While there may be multiple RLC entities per UE, only one medium access control (MAC) entity exists per UE.  

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Main functions of the MAC layer are related to multiplexing of data from different bearers. 
b.  Goal of the MAC layer is to achieve negotiated QoS for each bearer.  
c. MAC layer decides the amount of data that can be transmitted from each radio bearer, instructs the RLC about the size of packets to provide, and (in the uplink) reports the eNB of the buffered data at a UE. 
d.  Random access, scheduling, timing advance, discontinuous reception (DRC) are all handled at the MAC layer. 
*e.  To enable continuous transmission, up to 16 HARQ processes are used in parallel at the MAC layer, using a multi-process stop-and-wait (SAW) HARQ operation. 

6. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a. During SAW HARQ, upon transmission of a transport block, a transmitter awaits feedback (ACK/NACK message) from a receiver before its next transmission. 
*b. In a multi-process SAW HARQ, each HARQ process is responsible for a separate SAW operation with common buffer. 
c. There are two types of HARQ depending on when the retransmissions occur: synchronous HARQ and asynchronous HARQ. 
d. In synchronous HARQ, retransmissions for each process happen at pre-defined times relative to initial transmission instant to reduce signaling overhead. 
e. In an asynchronous HARQ, retransmissions can occur at any time relative to initial transmission, which allows more flexibility in scheduling. 

7. Which of the following statements is not correct?  
*a.  The transport channels handle the communication between MAC and RLC, while logical channels handle the communication between MAC and PHY. 
b. Downlink transport channels include broadcast channel, downlink shared channel, paging channel, and multicast channel. 
c. Control logical channels include broadcast control channel (delivers the system information), paging control channel, common control channel (cell-wide), multicast control channel, and dedicated control channel (UE-specific). 
d.  Details of scheduling algorithms are not standardized in LTE and are left to eNB implementation; only the signaling support for scheduling is standardized. 
e.  An eNB may allocate downlink/uplink radio resources to a UE based on the downlink data buffered in the eNB and the buffer status reports received from the UEs. 

8. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a.  There are two scheduling modes in LTE: dynamic scheduling, and semi-persistent scheduling. 
b.  Dynamic scheduling messages (assignment messages for the allocation of downlink transmission resources, and grant messages for the allocation of uplink transmission resources) are handled through PDCCH channel in LTE. 
c.  For dynamic scheduling in LTE, assignment / grant messages are valid only for a specified subframe (1 ms duration). 
d.  With semi-persistent scheduling, resources can be allocated periodically to a UE for a longer time duration than one subframe. 
*e.  Semi-persistent scheduling is useful for services such as web-browsing and file download. 

9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In the uplink, an eNB should know whether the UE has uplink data to transmit; therefore buffer status reports are sent from the UEs to the eNBs for assisting in uplink scheduling decisions at the eNB. 
b. When a UE is not allocated with uplink radio resources but has data to transmit, the UE uses the random access procedure. 
*c.  Uplink timing alignment ensures that UEs’ uplink transmissions are synchronized at the eNB; this is achieved by the UEs closer to the eNB transmitting at an earlier time than the UEs that are far away from the eNB.
d. Discontinuous reception can be configured for a UE during RRC_CONNECTED mode, so that it does not always need to monitor downlink channels. 
e.  A longer DRX cycle is better for battery savings, while a shorter DRX cycle is better for achieving lower latency and faster response by the UE when the data transfer is resumed. 

Ch. 5: OFDMA

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a.  OFDM requires complex equalization techniques due to FFT/IFFT operations involved. 
b.  In OFDM, channel over each subcarrier’s bandwidth is assumed to be flat. 
c.  OFDM results in spectrum savings compared to a classical multicarrier system due to overlapping (but orthogonal) subcarriers. 
d.  No guard band is required in OFDM for separating subcarriers.
e.  Subcarrier spacing in OFDM is adjusted in a way to guarantee orthogonality. 

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. OFDM benefits from the use of channel coding and HARQ to combat with deep fading on the individual narrow-band subcarriers. 
b. A problem with high-rate data streams is that in multipath channels with large delay spread, complex equalization techniques are required to combat with inter-symbol-interference (ISI) problem.  
*c. OFDM uses very large subcarrier bandwidths to combat with ISI.
d. OFDM converts a high-rate data stream into M parallel low-rate data streams (serial-to-parallel conversion), each of which is modulated at different subcarriers. 
e. Time-duration of each subcarrier in OFDM is approximately increased by M (number of subcarriers), so that the symbol duration is significantly longer than the channel delay spread. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. After serial to parallel conversion, bits to be transmitted are mapped onto complex symbols, such as QPSK, 16-QAM, and 64-QAM. 
b. Before getting the IFFT of complex symbols that are mapped on OFDM subcarriers, zero padding is applied to edge subcarriers in order to comply with spectral mask requirements. 
*c. Cyclic prefix (CP) is added to an OFDM signal before the IFFT block, and helps to combat multipath effects. 
d. The receiver removes the CP before getting the FFT of the received samples. 
e. Use of FFT / IFFT greatly reduces the transmitter/receiver complexity, compared to bank of sinusoids approach. 

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A digital modulation scheme modifies three parameters of a sinusoidal signal: amplitude (amplitude shift keying -- ASK), frequency (frequency shift keying -- FSK), and phase (phase shift keying -- PSK). 
b. In OFDM, a combination of ASK/PSK is used; with quadrature amplitude modulation, both the amplitude and phase of a signal are changed to carry the transmitted bits. 
*c. Since it carries larger number of bits, 64-QAM is preferable over 16-QAM for all possible values of signal-to-interference plus noise ratios (SINRs). 
d. OFDM is sensitive to carrier frequency offsets (CFOs) due to the "sinc" shape of its subcarriers in frequency domain. 
e. Use of a CP is preferable over the use of a guard-band (nothing transmitted), since, in addition to mitigating ISI effects, use of a CP also enables simple equalization at the receiver. 

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Use of the CP in OFDM results in a circular convolution between the channel impulse response and the transmitted OFDM signal.
b. Due to the circular convolution property, one-tap equalization becomes possible at the receiver. 
c. Channel estimation can compensate for rotation and scaling effects due to the multipath channel. 
d. Peak to average power ratio (PAPR) is a major drawback of OFDM.
*e. PAPR problem in OFDM can be handled through using larger FFT sizes.

6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Due to PAPR, OFDM signals may suffer from non-linear distortions, yielding out-of-band emissions and in-band corruption. 
b.  In typical power amplifiers, output signal does not scale linearly with input signal after a threshold input power. 
c.  PAPR problem in OFDM can be reduced through a clipping technique, where large values of time domain OFDM signal are clipped to a pre-defined level. 
*d.  The main reason for the carrier frequency offset problems in OFDM is the multipath channel.   
e.  Typically, frequency synchronization errors larger than few percent of the subcarrier bandwidth are untolerable in OFDM systems. 

7. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a.  A single path channel results in a Doppler shift with a specific Doppler frequency.  
*b.  Doppler spread causes timing offset problems in OFDM.  
c.  Doppler shift (and hence the carrier frequency offset) scales linearly with a UE’s velocity. 
d.  If Doppler spread becomes larger, higher order modulation schemes can not be accommodated. 
e.  If received OFDM signals arrive within the cyclic prefix, no inter-carrier-interference occurs, but a phase shift is introduced (which can be recovered through channel estimation). 

8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Use of a guard time (rather than a CP) in OFDM does not handle the inter-carrier-interference problem, even if all the multipath signals arrive within the guard time. 
b. Multiuser diversity in OFDMA significantly improves the aggregate spectral efficiency. 
c. CP dimensioning in OFDM mainly depends on the duration of the channel impulse response. 
*d. Use of a larger CP in OFDM always improves the throughput. 
e. A larger CP should be used in larger cells for improved performance. 

9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. OFDM subcarrier spacing design should depend on the amount of potential Doppler spread.  
*b. For a fixed number of OFDM subcarriers, a larger subcarrier spacing means also a longer symbol duration. 
c. OFDM symbol duration should be large enough to minimize overhead w.r.t. CP duration, but also small enough to ensure that channel does not vary within the OFDM symbol duration. 
d. OFDM parameter dimensioning depends on the environment, cell sizes, carrier frequencies, and employed bandwidths. 
e. LTE can support UE speeds as high as 500 km/h, and cell sizes up to 100 km.

10. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Subcarrier spacing in LTE is set to 15 KHz, which is a sufficiently large spacing to support high UE speeds.  
*b. LTE can adaptively choose among a large number of CP durations depending on the environment, ranging from 1 microseconds up to 30 microseconds. 
c. In case of multimedia broadcast single-frequency network (MBSFN) configuration, extended CP duration  can be employed due to larger RMS delay spreads of the wireless channel. 
d. In the normal CP mode, one slot in OFDM (0.5 ms) is composed of seven OFDM symbols. 
e. In case of 20 MHz systems, FFT size in OFDM, while implementation dependent, can be assumed to be 2048. 

Ch. 6: Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  There are three resource dimensions that can be utilized by LTE: time, frequency, and space. 
b.  Spatial dimension is measured in ‘layers’, which are accessed by multiple antenna ports at the eNB.
*c.  Same reference symbol (RS) is used for all the antenna ports by a UE to estimate the radio channel. 
d.  For each antenna port, largest unit in time domain is a 10 ms radio frame.
e.  A radio frame is divided into ten 1-ms subframes. 

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Each subframe in LTE is split into two 0.5 ms slots. 
b. Each slot of 0.5 ms in LTE is composed of 7 OFDM symbols in normal CP mode.  
*c. In frequency domain, resources are grouped into 10 subcarriers (each of which is 18 KHz), yielding a bandwidth of 180 KHz for a resource block.
d. Smallest unit in an LTE frame structure is a resource element, which is a single subcarrier in a single OFDM symbol. 
e. One resource block in LTE is composed of 84 resource elements in normal CP mode, and 72 resource elements in extended CP mode. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In TDD operation mode, different downlink and uplink duty cycles can be achieved through different TDD configurations, which makes it possible to dynamically adapt into variations in downlink and uplink traffic. 
b. A guard period between downlink/uplink subframes in TDD mode allows the implementation of timing advance operation. 
*c. A 5 ms switching periodicity in LTE introduces a larger delay for data transmission, when compared to 10 ms switching periodicity, . 
d. Scrambling block in LTE serves the purpose of interference rejection, and uses Gold codes. 
e. A codeword in LTE is formed after addition of cyclic redundancy check (CRC) and channel coding bits to the data bits to be transmitted. 

Ch. 7: Synchronization and Cell Search

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  In LTE, a UE has to go through the cell search procedure before gaining an initial access to an LTE cell. 
b.  Cell search process is necessary to acquire critical system parameters, achieve time/frequency synchronization, demodulate downlink signals, and transmit uplink signals with correct timing advance.
c.  In time domain, both symbol and frame timing acquisition is achieved through cell search, which e.g. is useful for setting correct DFT window position. 
d.  Carrier frequency synchronization is necessary to reduce or eliminate the effect of frequency errors due to oscillator mismatch or Doppler.
*e.  Detection of the secondary synchronization sequence (SSS) enables decoding of the physical layer ID of a cell. 

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Before detection of the PSS and the SSS, a UE first has to detect the reference symbols (RSs).
b. Cell search procedure in LTE first requires the detection of primary synchronization sequence (PSS), which makes it possible to detect the SSS. 
c. Correctly detecting the SSS also yields the information about the cyclic prefix length of the transmission, as well as whether the transmission is in TDD or FDD mode.  
d. After detecting the PSS and SSS, a UE is able to decode the physical broadcast channel (PBCH).  
e. For handover or cell reselection purposes, UE can also detect the PSS and SSS of the neighboring cells. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In the FDD mode, PSS is always transmitted at the last OFDM symbol of 1st and 11th slots. 
b. In the FDD mode, SSS is always transmitted in the symbol immediately preceding the PSS, which enables coherent detection of the SSS relative to the PSS. 
c. In the FDD mode, the assumption for coherent detection of SSS relative to the PSS is that the channel should be assumed approximately constant within a 2 symbol duration. 
d. In TDD mode, PSS is always transmitted at the 3rd OFDM symbol of 3rd and 13th slots, and SSS is located three symbols earlier. 
*e. Coherent detection of SSS is easier with TDD operation than the FDD operation. 

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. After detection of the PSS, precise location of the SSS is still uncertain, and requires a blind detection procedure. 
*b. Detection of PSS and SSS requires the information about the bandwidth used by the cell. 
c. Blind detection involves checking of two different CP durations (short and long) and two different duplexing modes (FDD and TDD) for finding the exact SSS location (i.e., checking a total of 4 possible SSS positions).
d. PSS and SSS are always transmitted at the central 6 resource blocks in frequency (72 subcarriers).
e. PSS and SSS can be detected using a size-64 FFT operation. 

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Particular PSS/SSS combination used by a cell also characterizes the physical layer cell identity of the transmitting cell. 
b. 3 unique PSS sequences indicate the cell identity within a group, while 168 SSS sequences indicate the identity of the group; hence, a total of 504 cells can be represented with different combinations of PSS and SSS in LTE.
*c. In LTE, PSS uses M-sequences, while SSS uses Zadoff-Chu sequences.
d. Zadoff-Chu sequences have a constant amplitude. 
e. Zadoff-Chu sequences have a zero autocorrelation zone. 

6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Zadoff-Chu sequences have low peak-to-average power ratio. 
*b. Cyclic autocorrelation of a Zadoff-Chu sequence is a constant value for all cyclic shifts. 
c. Absolute value of the cyclic cross-correlation of two Zadoff-Chu sequences is constant value.
d. Zadoff-Chu sequences have a constant amplitude. 
e. PSS in LTE is constructed from Zadoff-Chu sequences of length 63, using three different roots which are relatively prime with respect to 63.

7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Zero autocorrelation zone property of Zadoff-Chu sequences help to combat against multipath effects during synchronization. 
b. During non-coherent detection of a PSS, no prior knowledge of channel is required, but only the channel statistics are utilized. 
*c. Non-coherent detection can only be used for PSS, while coherent detection can be used for detecting both PSS and SSS. 
d. Performance of a non-coherent detection of a PSS or an SSS is degraded if the coherence bandwidth of the channel is less than six resource blocks. 
e. Physical layer cell identity (PCI) of a cell is given by 3 * (SSS-ID) + PSS-ID, where SSS-ID denotes the physical layer cell identity group number, while PSS-ID denotes the physical layer identity number.

Ch. 8: Reference Signals and Channel Estimation

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. LTE receivers require estimation of the channel for coherent detection of the transmitted symbols. 
b. Channel introduces phase rotation and scaling to the transmitted complex OFDM symbols, as long as the multipath replicas of the transmitted signal arrive within the cyclic prefix at the receiver. 
c. In order to coherently detect the transmitted symbols, known reference signals (with no data) need to be transmitted to enable channel estimation. 
*d. Common reference symbols (CRSs) in LTE are located at the four corners of a resource block. 
e. LTE uses reference symbols (RSs) for channel estimation, which are orthogonal to the data symbols. 


2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. After estimating the channels over known RSs, different interpolation techniques can be used based on these channel estimates, to obtain an estimate of the channel over the data symbols. 
b. Five different RSs in LTE downlink are common (cell-specific) reference symbols (CRSs), UE-specific RSs, MBSFN-specific RSs, positioning RSs, and channel state information (CSI) RSs. 
c. Different RS patterns are transmitted through different antenna ports in LTE. 
d. A UE does not differentiate whether a reference symbol transmitted through an antenna port comes from a single antenna or multiple antennas; the channel estimates obtained on that antenna port are used for all the data transmitted through that particular antenna port. 
*e. CRS can be used by the UEs to demodulate downlink control and data channels, generate CSI feedback, calculate RSRP/RSRQ, and realize beamforming to each specific UE. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The reason that different RSs are used for different antenna ports in LTE is that the observed channel at a UE would be different in different antenna ports. 
*b. With the FDD mode, an eNB may scale the number of antennas to an infinitely large number in future releases of LTE to significantly boost the downlink throughput.    
c. Considering Releases 8, 9, and 10, there are over 20 antenna ports combined in LTE. 
d. The placement of CRSs in the form of a diamond shape minimizes the mean square error of channel estimates. 
e. With the specified time/frequency separation of the CRSs in LTE, UE speeds up to ~500 km/hour, and RMS delay spread up to ~991 ns can be supported in LTE.

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. CRSs on antenna ports 2, 3 in LTE cannot support as high UE velocities as the CRSs on antenna ports 0, 1. 
*b. All CRSs in LTE are modulated with BPSK for robustness and to achieve low PAPR. 
c. CRS unambiguously carries one of the 504 physical cell identities (PCIs). 
d. The CRS may be off-set in frequency to 6 unique positions depending on the value of the PCI, which prevents CRS collusions between CRSs for up to six adjacent cells. 
e. Power of the CRSs may be boosted to a value up to 6 dB larger than the data symbols. 

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. If 4 antennas are used at an eNB, a UE may have to obtain four different channel estimates. 
b. A UE can be configured by the RRC to receive UE-specific RSs to enable beamforming. 
*c. Density of the Rel-8 UE-specific RSs is larger than the density of the CRSs with 4 antennas. 
d. With Rel-9 dual-layer beamforming, it is possible to transmit two spatial layers to one UE, or, single-layer transmission to two UEs. 
e. Channel characteristics between a transmitter and a receiver are affected by the number of transmit/receive antennas, transmission bandwidth, carrier frequency, cell configuration, and the speed difference between the eNB and the UE. 

6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Carrier frequencies and the system bandwidth affect the scattering nature of the channel. 
*b. In a wide sense stationary uncorrelated scattering (WSS-US) channel model, channel samples obtained at two different time instants corresponding to a given multipath component are uncorrelated. 
b. Relative speed between the transmitter and the receiver affect the time varying properties of the channel. 
c. Cell deployment (size, location, etc.) affect the multipath characteristics, delay spread, and spatial correlation characteristics. 
d. A channel scattering function jointly captures the Doppler spectrum and power delay profile of a multipath channel. 
e. It is possible to observe a different Doppler spectrum over different multipath components in a WSS-US channel model. 

7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. A Doppler spectrum characterizes the frequency selectivity of a channel between a transmitter and a receiver. 
b. Knowledge about the time correlation, the frequency correlation, and the spatial correlation may improve the accuracy of a channel estimator at a receiver. 
c. An MMSE channel interpolator yields a better accuracy than a linear interpolator, at the expense of increased implementation complexity. 
d. With time-domain channel estimation, information on the correlation between consecutive  time-domain OFDM symbols can be used to jointly estimate the channels over multiple OFDM symbols. 
e. Channel estimation algorithms are implementation dependent and not standardized in LTE.


Ch. 9: Downlink PHY/Control Channels

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a.  Downlink data transport channels in LTE are Physical Broadcast Channel (PBCH), Physical Downlink Shared Channel (PDSCH), Physical Multicast Channel (PMCH), and Physical Paging Channel (PPCH)
b.  Downlink control channels in LTE are Physical Control Format Indicator Channel (PCFICH), Physical Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel (PHICH), and Physical Downlink Control Channel (PDCCH)
c. System information in LTE can be transmitted through PBCH or PDSCH. 
d. The SI is crucial for other channels in the cell to be configured. 
e. Master information block (MIB) in LTE carriers most frequently transmitted parameters by a cell, needed for initial access to the cell.

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. PBCH can be detected without prior knowledge of the system bandwidth. 
b. PBCH is always mapped to central 6 resource blocks (in frequency) in a downlink transmission. 
c. PBCH benefits from time diversity to combat against time varying channels by spreading the 4 PBCH segments into a 40 ms duration, with one PBCH segment transmitted in each frame. 
*d. A UE should receive all of the 4 PBCH segments (one transmitted in each frame) in order to decode a PBCH. 
e. Antenna diversity can be applied both at the UE and the eNB side to improve the coverage area of PBCH. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. PDSCH is used to carry all user data, broadcast information not carried in PBCH, and the paging messages.
b. Eight of the nine transmission modes in PDSCH rely on the use of multiple antennas. 
*c. Modulation formats used in PDSCH are BPSK, QPSK, 16-QAM, and 64-QAM.
d. Use of 64-QAM in PDSCH is supported by all the LTE UE classes.
e. PDSCH can use all resource elements which are not used for other purposes, such as those for reference symbols, synchronization signals, PBCH, and control signaling. 

4.  Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. More common approach of mapping user data to PDSCH is that of localized mapping, where a pair of neighboring resource blocks (in time) are mapped to the same UE. 
b. Distributed resource mapping can be used in PDSCH in order to benefit from frequency diversity, and improve the performance in the presence of deep fades in frequency. 
c. Distributed mapping is typically used for VoIP services. 
*d. Physical multicast channel (PMCH) can be transmitted in any subframe in LTE. 
e. Index of a multicast broadcast services single frequency network (MBSFN) subframe is signaled to a UE as a part of the system information (SI).

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The PMCH is introduced in Rel. 9 of LTE; a Rel. 8 UE should know the existence of an MBSFN subframe, but is not required to decode it. 
b. Control channels provide the PHY signaling to support MAC layer. 
*c. Control channels are transmitted in the first 1, 2, or 3 symbols of each resource block. 
d. The time and frequency resources to be used by the UEs in the uplink and the downlink are assigned by the control channels. 
e. Modulation scheme and coding rate to be used by the UEs are also explicitly signaled to the UEs by the control channels. 

6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Control channels are responsible for carrying ACK messages corresponding to the downlink data packets transmitted to the UEs. 
b. Power control commands to increase/decrease uplink transmission powers of the UEs are carried by the control channels. 
c. Reliability of control channels also affects the cell throughput. 
d. Control channel messages may be dedicated to a UE, or, may be common to a group of UEs. 
e. Number of control messages can be reduced through semi-persistent scheduling in VoIP transmissions. 

7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A physical control format indicator channel (PCFICH) indicates the number of OFDM symbols dedicated to control channel in each subframe (1, 2, or 3 symbols)
b. A UE can normally find the number of OFDM symbols dedicated to control channels blindly, without needing the PCFICH. 
*c. Control channels are always transmitted in the central six resource blocks (in frequency) of a downlink frame.
d. PCFICH is carried by the same antenna port as PBCH, and transmit diversity may be used. 
e. PCFICH transmissions can benefit from frequency diversity. 

8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. HARQ messages indicate whether the eNB correctly received uplink transmissions from the UEs. 
b. The error rate on the physical hybrid ARQ indicator channel (PHICH) is intended to be on the order of 10^-2 for ACK messages and 10^-4 for NACK messages. 
c. Each PDCCH carries a message called downlink control information (DCI), which includes resource assignments and other control information for a single UE, or for a group of UEs. 
d. CRC in PDCCH is scrambled with a certain UE's identity, which enables a UE to find the PDCCH that was assigned to itself. 
*e. UEs always have to search through all the control channel region to find the PDCCH assigned to themselves. 

9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A PDCCH is transmitted using one or more control channel elements (CCE), where each CCE corresponds to nine resource element groups (REG), and each resource element group is composed of four resource elements. 
b. Four PDCCH formats are supported in LTE, which can carry 1, 2, 4, or 8 CCEs. 
c. PDCCH symbols are always modulated with QPSK modulation to achieve robustness. 
*d. One CCE in LTE can carry 144 PDCCH bits. 
e. DCI format in LTE can change depending on the PDSCH mode in which a particular UE will be scheduled. 

10. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. One of the major functions of the PDCCHs is to indicate the frequency domain resource allocation in each subframe. 
*b. PDCCH always uses a bitmap to each UE, which captures whether a specific individual RB is assigned to a UE or not. 
c. PDCCH may address resource block groups, whose size varies with the downlink bandwidth. 
d. Addressing a group of resource blocks through PDCCH, rather than individual resource blocks, decreases the control signaling overhead. 
e. How to use PDCCH for resource allocation purposes depends on the algorithms implemented at an eNB.

Ch. 10: Link Adaptation & Channel Coding

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Link adaptation in LTE changes the transmitted information data rate dynamically to match the radio channel quality for each user
b. Link adaptation in the downlink is achieved through the use of channel quality indicator (CQI) transmitted from the UEs in the uplink. 
c. For enhancing link adaptation performance, CQI should be transmitted more frequently by the UEs, which comes at the expense of larger overhead. 
*d. How to implement link adaptation has been specifically defined in the LTE standard. 
e. Through link adaptation, same modulation and coding schemes (MCSs) are used in the downlink and the uplink; however, in the uplink, 64-QAM is possible only for the highest UE category. 

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. For uplink link adaptation purposes, the eNB directly estimates the UE link quality through channel sounding (e.g., using sounding reference symbols), and no dedicated CQI messages are used. 
b. CQI feedback may also be used for scheduling decisions, and to declare radio link failure by a UE. 
*c. RSRP/RSRQ and CQI are always estimated over the same bandwidth. 
d. At good channel conditions, higher code rates are used, which have less overhead bits for error correction. 
e. A UE uses the same MCS on all the resource blocks within a given subframe, and frequency-dependent MCS selection is not supported in LTE. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Two different UEs at the same exact SINR may report different CQI levels to the eNB, depending on their capabilities. 
b. CQI is an indication of the highest MCS a UE can support, with a block error rate lower than 10%.
c. Highest MCS a UE may support in LTE is 64-QAM with a coding rate of 4/5 (1 coding bit for every 4 data bits). 
*d. CQI in LTE is a 3-bit indicator, to support a total of 8 different MCS levels. 
e. Spectral efficiency in LTE for different MCS levels varies between 0.15 bps/Hz (QPSK with a code rate of 0.076. and 5.55 bps/Hz (64-QAM with a code rate of 0.93.. 

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Adaptive modulation and coding (AMC) in LTE assumes that the coherence time of the channel is very small. 
b. For high speed UEs, it is more likely that the CQI can become out-dated before it is used for selecting a MCS for a PDSCH transmission. 
c. More frequent reporting of CQI ensures that link quality information of the UEs are up to date at the eNB, at the expense of larger transmission overhead in the uplink.
d. Periodicity and frequency resolution of CQI are both controlled by the eNB. 
e. Periodic CQI are transmitted during physical uplink control channels (PUCCH), while aperiodic CQI are transmitted during physical uplink shared channels (PUSCH). 

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A CQI report may be transmitted over the whole transmission bandwidth (wideband CQI), or, over a particular subband (may be configured by the eNB or selected by the UE). 
b. In addition to CQI feedback, UE may also transmit precoding matrix indicator (PMI) and rank indication (RI) feedback in the uplink, required by certain PDSCH transmission modes in the downlink. 
*c. LTE only uses convolutional codes as the channel coding method. 
d. Channel coding is typically a dominant source of complexity at a wireless receiver. 
e. A convolutional encoder of C(k,n,m) means that a shift register with m stages are employed, k information bits enter the shift register, and n information bits exit (with an encoding rate of R=k/n). 

6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A turbo decoder uses the principle of iterative decoding to achieve near Shannon-limit link-level capacity. 
*b. A turbo encoder consists of a concatenation of three convolutional encoders, linked by an interleaver. 
c. HARQ is supported both in the downlink and the uplink in LTE. 
d. FDD mode in LTE supports 8 stop-and-wait HARQ processes which run simultaneously. 
e. Typical round-trip-time in HARQ, where a downlink packet is transmitted, and an ACK/NACK message corresponding to that packet is received back from the receiver, is equal to 8 ms.

Ch. 11: Multiple Antenna Techniques

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  The three types of gains that are achievable through the use of multiple antenna systems in LTE are the diversity gain, the array gain, and the spatial multiplexing gain.
b.  Diversity reception helps to obtain a flatter received signal (lower chances of deep fades) by combining multiple fading signals received at/from multiple antennas.
*c.  Alamouti coding is an example method for achieving array gain. 
d.  Eight of the nine PDSCH transmission modes in LTE and LTE-Advanced rely on the use of multiple antennas. 
e.  Open loop transmit diversity is suitable to be used for velocities higher than 30 km/hour.

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Receive diversity is a more suitable technique for the uplink rather than the downlink. 
b. In a receive diversity system, if receiver antennas are sufficiently separated, fading will be independent, and combined signal will be more flatter.  
c. Closed loop transmit diversity requires the transmission of PMI feedback from the UE to the eNB.
d. Goal of the PMI feedback in closed loop transmit diversity is to adjust the phases of the signals transmitted through different antennas, so that they do not cancel each other at the receiver.
*e.  PMI feedback does not depend on the central frequency of transmitted subcarriers. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  In an open-loop transmit diversity scheme, Alamouti coding is typically used to obtain a flatter signal at the receiver, without the need of a specific PMI feedback from the receiver. 
b.  In a MIMO spatial multiplexing system with NT transmit and NR receive antennas, peak rate is proportional to min(NT,NR).
*c.  Open loop spatial multiplexing requires transmission of rank indicator (RI) feedback from the eNB to the UE. 
d.  If the channel matrix H is not a full-rank matrix, achievable peak rate is no longer proportional with the min(NT,NR). 
e.  Rank indicator (RI) can be obtained through the channel estimation process, and it corresponds to the number of symbols that the receiver can successfully receive in a spatial multiplexing based MIMO transmission.

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  In a closed loop spatial multiplexing system, both RI and PMI are estimated through the channel estimation process at the UE, and they are transmitted to the eNB as a feedback message. 
*b.  In a closed loop spatial multiplexing system, if the RI = 1, the eNB transmits the same exact symbol s1 in both antennas, and does not use any information from the PMI feedback.
c.  LTE uses eigenvalue decomposition of the channel matrix H to obtain the precoding matrix at the transmitter (eNB), and post-coding matrix at the receiver (UE). 
d.  Precoding matrix receives the symbol information from the layer mapping and maps a linear combination of these symbols to different transmit antennas.
e.  The channel matrix H=[1 2;  2 4] is not full-rank and can not be used in a 2x2 spatial multiplexing mode. 

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a.  PMI feedback in LTE transmits all individual matrix elements of the precoding matrix F  from UE to eNB. 
b.  If the eigenvalues of a channel matrix H are different, different modulation/coding schemes may be used at different transmission layers (corresponding to different eigenvalues). 
c.  For a spatial multiplexing MIMO system to work efficiently, separation between the antennas should be large. 
d.  A spatial multiplexing MIMO system works better in a non-line-of-sight environment than a line-of-sight environment due to the characteristics of the channel matrix H in those environments.
e.  A minimum mean square error (MMSE) MIMO receiver works better than a zero-forcing (ZF) MIMO receiver in high noise/interference scenario. 

6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  In uplink multiuser MIMO, there is no need to transmit a precoding matrix. 
b.  Uplink multiuser MIMO can be implemented with inexpensive UEs that only have single antenna. 
c.  Beamforming increases the coverage area of an eNB. 
*d.  Beamforming works best if the antennas are separated from each other. 
e.  In a 4x4 spatial multiplexing MIMO transmission with a full-rank channel matrix, four independent data streams are formed from the transmitter to the receiver, with no coupling between any of the streams. 

7.  Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Rank of a channel matrix H indicates the number of usable eigenvalues, and hence the number of independent data streams between the transmitter and the receiver. 
b.  If a channel matrix H is ill-conditioned, reconstructed symbols corresponding to smaller eigenvalues will be badly corrupted by noise.  
c.  Codebook in a MIMO system includes a list of the possible precoding matrices that can be used by the transmitter. 
d.  Same codebook index (PMI) may correspond to different precoding matrices depending on the value of the rank indicator (RI) variable. 
*e.  If codebook index is represented by 4 bits in a PMI feedback message from the receiver to the transmitter, a maximum of 4 precoding matrices can be used for a given RI. 

8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In LTE Release-8, diversity processing and spatial multiplexing with a maximum of NT=4 and NR=4 antennas are supported. 
*b. If the antennas are not close enough to each other in a spatial multiplexing system, channel elements will be correlated, channel matrix H will be ill-conditioned, spatial multiplexing becomes unusable, and the transmitter has to fall back to diversity processing. 
c. For fast moving mobiles, PMI becomes quickly outdated, and hence open-loop spatial multiplexing is preferable. 
d. In an uplink multiuser MIMO (MU-MIMO) system, the eNB can freely choose UEs to pair (schedule in the same resource blocks) in order to guarantee a well behaved channel matrix.
e. Uplink MU-MIMO increases the overall cell throughput. 

9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Uplink MU-MIMO is introduced into LTE in Release-10, along with uplink single-user MIMO. 
b. Implementation of the downlink MU-MIMO is different than that of uplink MU-MIMO, since PMI feedback is needed in the former. 
c. In dual layer beamforming, two users targeted by different beams can be scheduled in the same resource blocks. 
d. In practice, an eNB is likely to use two sets of antennas; one set where the antennas are closely spaced (for beamforming purposes), and another set where antennas are widely spaced (for diversity processing and spatial multiplexing purposes). 
e. An eNB can continuously steer the beams to different users by varying the weights applied to different antennas. 

10. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. It is possible to increase the range in the uplink through applying receive beamforming at an eNB.  
b. There are two techniques to determine antenna weights in receive beamforming: reference signal technique and direction of arrival technique. 
*c. In transmit beamforming, both in TDD and FDD modes, eNB requires different antenna weights in the uplink and the downlink. 
d. Dual layer beamforming can be implemented using two parallel sets of antenna weights, each set targeting a different user. 
e. Difference of downlink multiuser MIMO from dual layer beamforming is that UEs send PMI feedback to the eNB for weight calculation. 

Ch. 12: Multi-User Scheduling and Interference Coordination

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Scheduling in LTE has the purpose of allocating resource blocks transmission powers for each ten milisecond frame duration, in order to optimize certain performance metrics.
b. Scheduling in a typical single – cell cellular system aims to optimize performance metrics such as: max, min or average throughput, delay, total or per user spectral efficiency, and outage probability.
c. Scheduling is coupled tightly with link adaptation and HARQ.
d. CSI and traffic measurements are used by the scheduling algorithms.
e. Frequent transmission of CSI feedback improves scheduling performance, at the expense of large overhead.

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. For users located at the center of the cell, the maximum sum throughput is achieved when both eNodeB are transmitting at maximum power.
*b. For users located at the edge of the cell, the maximum sum throughput is achieved when both eNodeB are transmitting at maximum power in order to guarantee better SNR.
c. The scheduler at the eNodeb can treat UEs differently depending on whether they are cell – edge or cell-center UEs.
d. For scheduling purposes, each cell is divided in two parts, inner and outer.
e. Frequency domain ICIC was standardized in Release 8/9.

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The eNB is responsible for scheduling users in both uplink and downlink.
b. Different traffic queues in the eNB typically have different QoS constraints.
c. Queue lengths depend heavily on the Hybrid Automatic Repeat request (HARQ) operation.
*d. Fair scheduling maximizes the sum of transmit data rates.
e. Opportunistic scheduling makes use of multiuser diversity.

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The eNB can take into account the interference from neighboring co-channel cells during scheduling operation.
*b. Delay-limited capacity assumes no latency constraints.
c. More power is allocated to a scheduled user if the channel is good, and less power otherwise.
d. During downlink scheduling, the eNB uses CQI reports obtained from the UEs.
e. During uplink scheduling, the eNB uses sounding reference signals (SRS) or other signals by the UE for scheduling decisions.

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. The eNB is responsible for scheduling the users only in uplink and not the downlink.
b. Different traffic queues in the eNB have different QoS.
c. Frequent transmission of CSI feedback produces large overhead.
d. In TDD, because of the channel reciprocity property in the downlink and the uplink, feedback overhead can be reduced.
e. Ergodic (Shannon) capacity assumes that there are no latency constraints for communication.

6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Accurate CSI and traffic information is important for effective operation of a scheduler.
b. Fair scheduling aims to guarantee a minimum data rate for each user, rather than maximizing the total data rate.
c. Fair scheduling has low latency, which is important for applications such as VoIP. 
*d. Opportunistic scheduling offers lower aggregate capacity than fair scheduling.
e. Opportunistic scheduling needs to wait for each user to have a favorable channel quality.

7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. The eNB is responsible for scheduling in the downlink, while the UE handles uplink scheduling.
b. In uplink interference coordination, the overload indicator (OI) can take three levels: low, medium, or high.
c. In practice most of the scheduling algorithms fall between opportunistic scheduling and fair scheduling.
d. In LTE interference coordination, the scheduler at the eNB can treat UEs differently depending on whether they are cell-edge or cell center UEs.
e. High interference indicator (HII) can be used to proactively coordinate uplink interference among neighboring cells. 

8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Overall scheduling performance in LTE will be improved if a certain eNB minimizes interference to neighboring eNBs. The eNB should take into account the interference from neighboring co-channel cells.
b. Ergodic (Shannon) capacity assumes no latency constraints and is defined as the maximum data rate which can be sent over the channel with asymptotically small error probability, averaged over the fading process.
*c. In LTE, resource scheduling entails that each logical channel has a corresponding QoS description that influence the scheduling decisions made by the UE.
d. In LTE, the interference from neighboring cells constitutes a limiting factor of performance. The eNB should take into account the interference from neighboring co-channel cells, which can be severe, especially for cell edge users
e. The optimum (binary) power allocation strategy aims for cell center users to achieve maximum aggregate capacity when both eNBs transmit at maximum power, while cell edge users' aggregate capacity is maximized by allowing only one eNB to transmit.

Ch. 13: Broadcast Operation

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Multicast supports both downlink and uplink point-to-multipoint connections.
b. Broadcasting is a simultaneous downlink-only delivery of content to large groups of mobile users (newscasts, weather forecasts, live mobile television, etc).
c. Multicast requires additional procedures for subscription, authorization, and charging, to ensure the services are targeted to specific users.
d. In MBMS transmission, multiple cells transmit the same data in a synchronized way (single frequency network) and it appears as one transmission to the UE.
e. The goal of the MBMS Single Frequency Network is to support a cell-edge spectral efficiency of 1 bps/Hz.

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In MBMS, if all signals from multiple eNBs arrive within the CP, there will be no ISI.
b. How the eNBs are synchronized for MBMS purposes is not defined in LTE (typically through GPS). 
c. MBSFN transmission happens through Physical Multicast Channel (PMCH).
*d. PMCH uses HARQ  to extend the CP duration by 17 microseconds.
e. Subcarrier spacing of 7.5 KHz in MBMS transmissions minimizes the overhead; drawback is the larger inter-carrier interference.

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) was introduced in Release 10 of LTE.
a. MBSFN transmission enhances the SINR at the cell-edge.
b. MBSFN transmission happens trough Physical Multicast Channel (PMCH).
c. Certain dedicated subframes are specifically used for MBSFN transmission.
d. PMCH uses an extended CP duration compared to PDSCH transmissions to support larger multipath delays.
e. MBSFN reference symbols have a different pattern than CRS, and is denser than CRS for two-layer transmission. 

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Multicast offers simultaneous downlink-only delivery of content to a managed group of terminals. 
b. Unicast offers bi-directional point-to-point transmission where the same content may have to be transmitted multiple times to different users (at different resources). 
*c. Broadcast offers simultaneous uplink-only delivery of content to large groups of mobile users. 
d. MBMS data may be transmitted from either a single cell or from multiple cells.
e. Multiple cells transmit data in a synchronized way during MBMS transmission.

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. The Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) is introduced since Rel. 8.
b. The Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) goal is provide efficient delivery of both broadcast and multicast data to users.
c. Multicast requires additional procedures for subscription, authorization, and charging, to ensure the services are targeted to specific users.
d. In general, MBMS does not use PDCCH, but uses MCH.
e. MBSFN transmission enhances the SINR, especially at the cell-edge, where signals from multiple eNBs would normally interfere, but are combined in MBMS.

Ch. 14: Uplink PHY Design

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. SC-FDMA is advantageous over 3G CDMA technology, since SC-FDMA maintains better orthogonality of uplink transmissions from different users due to the use of a cyclic prefix. 
*b. SC-FDMA transmits all the symbols over a single carrier and shorter symbol durations.
c. SC-FDMA transmitter/receiver includes additional DFT/IDFT blocks over an OFDMA transmitter/receiver. 
d. DFT Spread OFDM is an alternative name for SC-FDMA. 
e. Size of the DFT at a SC-FDMA transmitter is typically lower than the size of the IFFT at the transmitter. 

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Other than the outputs of the DFT block, IFFT block at an uplink SC-FDMA transmitter receives all zeros as inputs.  
b. A UE learns the frequency resources to schedule its uplink SC-FDMA transmission by reading the PDCCH transmission of the eNB in the downlink. 
*c. SC-FDMA uses a guard band instead of a cyclic prefix. 
d. A SC-FDMA transmission has a lower PAPR and cubic metric when compared with an OFDMA transmission. 
e. SC-FDMA with 16-QAM modulation has a larger PAPR than a SC-FDMA with QPSK modulation. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. One of the benefits of SC-FDMA over 3G CDMA is that it enables simple, single-tap frequency-domain equalization. 
b. Output of the FFT block in a SC-FDMA receiver is followed by several parallel IDFT blocks, each corresponding to a different UE. 
c. A localized SC-FDMA transmission has lower PAPR than a distributed SC-FDMA transmission. 
d. Distributed SC-FDMA better benefits from frequency diversity (and hence has a better spectral efficiency) than a localized SC-FDMA. 
*e. In a SC-FDMA receiver, frequency domain equalization is performed after the IDFT block. 

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. All SC-FDMA transmissions in LTE Releases 8, 9 are based on localized SC-FDMA. 
b. In Release 10 of LTE, clustered DFT-S-FDMA is introduced, which allows partitioning of a single SC-FDMA transmission into multiple clusters. 
c. Clustered DFT-S-FDMA improves the channel dependent scheduling performance compared to localized SC-FDMA, but has a larger PAPR. 
d. In LTE, SC-FDMA uses the same parameterization as OFDMA. 
*e. In the uplink, RRC and Kaiser windows are mandated as pulse shaping filters for SC-FDMA. 

Ch. 15: Uplink Reference Symbols 

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. One of the roles of an uplink reference symbol is to enable channel estimation to help in coherent demodulation. 
*b. One other role of uplink reference symbols in an FDD based duplexing is to estimate the channel quality for  downlink scheduling purposes. 
c. One other role of uplink reference symbols is to estimate the direction-of-arrival to support downlink beamforming. 
d. There are two types of uplink reference symbols, Demodulation RS (DM-RS) and Sounding RS (SRS). 
e. Uplink reference symbols can be used for timing estimation purposes.

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. DM-RS is primarily used for channel estimation for coherent demodulation. 
b. SRS is primarily used for channel quality determination to enable frequency selective scheduling in the uplink. 
*c. DM-RS occupies a separate bandwidth than PUSCH and PUCCH. 
d. SRS can occupy a different bandwidth than UE data to enable wideband channel sounding. 
e. Most uplink reference symbols are based on Zadoff-Chu sequences. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. SRS can be transmitted with different transmission periods, ranging between 2 ms to 320 ms.
b. Transmitting SRS more frequently helps in obtaining more up to date information about the uplink channel, but introduces more overhead.
*c. There can be SRS transmission from only one user at a given subframe, and SRS transmissions can not be multiplexed from multiple users in that subframe.
d. If the uplink channel is not changing frequently, it is better to transmit SRS less often. 
e. Full bandwidth SRS transmission gives most comprehensive information over the whole bandwidth for scheduling purposes; however, UEs far away from the eNB may have difficulties to transmit at maximum power over the whole bandwidth. 


4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. One of the roles of Uplink Reference Symbols is channel quality estimation for uplink scheduling. 
b. DeModulation RS (DM-RS) is related to transmissions of uplink data on the Physical Uplink Shared CHannel (PUSCH) and/or the Physical Uplink Control CHannel (PUCCH).
*c. Sounding RS (SRS) is primarily used for channel estimation for coherent demodulation.
d. Sounding RS (SRS) is not related to PUSCH/PUCCH transmissions.
e. In LTE, UL RSs are time multiplexed with data and DM-RS occupies the same bandwidth as PUSCH and PUCCH.

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Most uplink reference signals in LTE are based on Zadoff-Chu sequences.
b. DFT spreading is not applied to the RS sequence in LTE uplink.
c. Orthogonality among users is maintained as long as the cyclic shifts are longer than the channel impulse response.
d. LTE may operate in RS sequence hopping or RS sequence planning modes in the uplink.
*e. Long-block DM-RS (single symbol per subframe) yields a better block error rate at high UE velocities compared to short-block DM-RS (two symbols per subframe).    


Ch. 16: PHY Channel Structure

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The uplink physical channels are: Physical Random Access Channel (PRACH), Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH), Physical Uplink Control Channel (PUCCH).
b. During the PUSCH processing, the OFDM 0.5 subcarrier shift is used to distribute the distortion caused by the DC carrier to multiple subcarriers.
*c. PUSHC uses only frequency selective scheduling. 
d. In frequency selective scheduling PUSCH typically uses SRS to choose the best RBs to schedule as well as the corresponding MCS.
e. Larger SRS bandwidth gives more alternatives for potentially good channels while smaller SRS bandwidth improves channel estimation on the sounded RBs.

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Physical Uplink Control Channels are transmitted at the edge of the system bandwidth.
*b. Control signaling from multiple UEs cannot be multiplexed in a single PUCCH region.
c. PUCCH positions maximize the frequency diversity.
d. PUCCH may use frequency domain and/or time domain code multiplexing.
e. In the case of frequency domain code multiplexing different cyclic time shifts of a base sequence is used.

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Two types of scheduling in PUSCH are: frequency-selective scheduling which makes use of good channel qualities of UEs, and non-frequency-selective scheduling that aims to benefit from frequency diversity.
b. Frequency selective PUSCH scheduling typically uses SRS to choose the best RBs to schedule, as well as the corresponding MCS.
c. Larger SRS bandwidths provide more alternatives for potentially good channels.
d. Smaller SRS bandwidths improve channel estimation on the sounded RBs, but results in missing channel information at certain RBs (which may be good quality).
*e. SRS can be transmitted at any of the symbols in a SC-FDMA subframe.

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. The PUSCH typically uses the PMI feedback to choose the best RBs to schedule, as well as the corresponding MCS.
b. The PUCHH being at the band edges (rather than center) minimizes Out-of-band (OOB) emissions - PUCCH serves as a guard band to a wide-band PUSCH transmission.
c. Smaller SRS bandwidths: improves channel estimation on the sounded RBs, but results in missing channel information at certain RBs (which may be good quality).
d. The PUCHH being at the band edges (rather than center) maximizes the UE bandwidth (need to preserve the single carrier nature of transmission).
e. Uplink control signaling from multiple UEs can be multiplexed in a single PUCCH region.

Ch. 17-18: Random Access and Transmission Procedures for Uplink

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Main goal of the Random Access Channel (RACH)  is to establish UL time synchronization for a UE, which has lost or not yet acquired uplink synchronization.
b. RACH can be used for ACK/NACK downlink data transmission to an out-of-synch UE.
c. UEs randomly choose and transmit a random access preamble (ZC-sequence) for RACH transmissions.
d. The eNB can prevent contention (collision) by allocating a dedicated signature to a UE (contention-free RACH).
*e. During contention-based random access, the UE transmits the random access response to the eNode B. 

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. When a preamble is detected within a given opportunity, eNB signals the timing adjustment information and uplink resource allocation to the UE. 
*b. The UEs transmit random preamble signature during contention-free random access.
c. PRACH resource configuration has 16 total different resource configurations, with different subframe patterns for the random access opportunities.
d. There are smaller number of PRACH opportunities at smaller bandwidths, which reduces PRACH overhead at the cost of longer waiting times for the UEs.
e. Orthogonal PRACH slots can be used at neighboring cells to minimize collusions during RACH procedure.

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Initial timing advance is determined during the random access procedure. 
b. One of the goals of power control is to balance the need for high transmission power to achieve a given QOS and to reduce the interference to neighboring cells. 
*c. LTE only uses open-loop power control. 
d. Closed-loop power control is used only when the UE’s own estimate of required power settings is not satisfactory. 
e. Closed-loop power control enables faster adaptation of the transmit power to fit into instantaneous channel conditions. 

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Due to the UE’s movement, we can expect changes in propagation channels and Doppler shifts. 
b. Exact procedures for estimating the timing advance are implementation-dependent. 
c. eNB can measure any useful signal for estimating a timing advance. 
d. Intra-cell interference is less critical in LTE than in WCDMA. 
*e. Timing-advance ensures that UEs at the cell edge transmit at a later time than the UEs closer to the eNB for synchronous reception at the eNB.

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In LTE uplink, main goal of the Random Access Chanel (RACH) is to establish UL time synchronization for a UE, which has lost or not yet acquired uplink synchronization.
b. RACH can be used during the handover procedure, which requires a low latency. 
c. eNB can prevent contention (collusion) by allocating a dedicated signature to a UE.
d. During Random Access Response (RAR), eNB correlates the received signal in each RACH opportunity with ALL possible preamble sequences.
*e. Latency of contention- based approach is predictable.

6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Timing control is critical for uplink intra-cell multiple access.
b. Power control is critical for maintaining the UE’s QoS, maintaining acceptable UE battery life, and controlling inter-cell interference.
*c. LTE uses open-loop power control only when UE’s own estimate of required power setting is not satisfactory. 
d. Initial timing advance is determined during the random access procedure.
e. During timing advance updates, eNB may measure any useful signal received from the UE for estimation purposes (SRS, DM-RS, CQI, etc.).

7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Contention-based random access has several stages: preamble transmission, random access response, layer 2 and layer 3 message, and contention resolution message.
b. The eNB can prevent collisions for a UE by allocating a dedicated signature to the UE in the contention-free RACH procedure.
c. The contention-based RACH procedure can be used for the reestablishment of the connectivity after a radio link failure.
*d. The initial preamble transmission in RACH happens with closed-loop power control with a fractional path-loss compensation.
e. Random access preamble formats may adopt different CP durations to combat with multipath, and may use repetition of the random access sequence to increase the transmission distance (coverage) of RACH.

Ch. 19-26: Practical Deployment Aspects

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A-GNSS positioning technique for LTE UEs has very good positioning accuracy and reasonable availability.
*b. A-GNSS is a cellular network based positioning system with the assistance data provided by satellites.
c. OTDOA is a useful alternative to A-GNSS in dense eNB environments where the satellite signals cannot be received.
d. Cell-ID techniques have reasonably good estimate of the UE location in urban environments with dense eNBs.
e. LTE conformance tests are often performed by an external organization, such as a certified conformance test laboratory.

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. OTDOA positioning technique requires a UE to detect at least two different eNBs with high probability.
b. OTDOA requires the use of special positioning subframes to improve the hearability of the neighboring eNBs.
c. Positioning reference symbols (PRSs) enable a larger frequency reuse than CRSs.
d. Location servers provide the exact locations of the eNBs and their PRS sequence.
e. Selection of the inter-frequency measurement gap repetition period in LTE discontinuous reception (DRX) procedure involves a trade-off. If the gap repetition period is smaller, then it yields a shorter cell identification delay, but a greater interruption in data transmission and reception. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The three main multipath phenomena are: propagation path-loss, shadow fading and multipath fading.
b. Multipath fading may yield as much as 30-40 dB instantaneous degradation as a UE moves (very fast variations).
*c. In the IMT-advanced channel model maximum number of BS antennas is 8 and maximum number of UE antennas is 4.
d. LTE conformance test uses ITU channel models EPA, EVA, ETU.
e. LTE conformance tests: include propagation conditions for two high-speed train scenarios at 300 and 350 km/h, with different Doppler shift trajectories.

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Error vector magnitude (EVM) is a measure of the distortion introduced by the RF imperfections of practical implementations.
b. In LTE, out of band emissions are defined by means of spectrum emission masks and adjacent channel leakage ratio requirements.
c. In RRC idle mobility, RSRP/RSRQ measurements by a UE may be used autonomously for cell reselection, and RSRP/RSRQ measurements may also be reported during RRC connected mode.
*d. Using the inter-frequency measurements, UE identifies E-UTRA cells on the same carrier frequency as the serving cell.
e. During LTE conformance tests,  measurements such as signal generators and radio channel emulators are used to measure the performance metrics such as power, voltage, sensitivity, Bit Error Rate (BER), Block Error Rate (BLER), throughput or handover success rate.

5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. The coverage area of a cell is dictated by the CQI feedback from a UE.
b. RSRQ is the ratio of RSRP to RSSI where RSSI is the total received power, including interference from all sources and it is measured over all the REs 
c. In LTE (Release 8. RSRP and RSRQ are important parameters for performing handovers within E-UTRAN, and from other RATs to E-UTRAN.
d. In LTE Release 8, RSRQ is applicable only in RRC_CONNECTED state.
e. Network may request UE to perform blind handover to cell which is unknown to UE. In this case measurements reports are not required by the network and also results in a longer interruption time since the UE has to detect the target cell prior to accessing it.

6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In full-duplex mode, communication can happen simultaneously in the downlink and the uplink, whereas in half-duplex mode, downlink and uplink communication happens at mutually exclusive times.
*b. TDD may require duplexers to provide isolation between the inbound and outbound signals on the different carrier frequencies.
c. Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio (ACIR) is derived from the transmitter’s Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR) and the receiver’s Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS).
d. If the guard band between two transmission bands is not sufficiently large, then the receiver performance is significantly affected if the transmitter/receiver are close to each other.
e. Two measurement gap periodicities are possible in LTE; they have measurement gap repetition period of 40 ms and 80 ms, respectively. In both modes, measurement gap length is 6 ms. 

7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a) When two transceivers A and B each utilize the same antenna for transmission and reception, the frequency-domain transfer function H(f) (or equivalently the time-domain impulse response h(t)) observed at B when A is transmitting will be the same as the transfer function observed at A when B is transmitting. This is called channel reciprocity.
*b) FDD systems can easily exploit reciprocity in a radio communications link. 
c) In order to realize a true state of reciprocity between a base station and a UE, the feed-forward loop delay must be within the coherence time of the channel.
d) Exploitation of channel reciprocity for LTE TDD is possible in certain applications. These include uplink transmit antenna selection (using only amplitude information) and non-codebook-based downlink pre-coding (also using phase information).
e) Frequency division dupplexing (FDD) is a full-duplex mode, while time division duplexing (TDD) is a half-duplex mode. 

8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A combined network of macrocells and small cells like picocells and femtocells is called as Heterogeneous Network.
b. Pico cells are deployed in the cell edge areas to offload cell edge users with low SINR to the pico cell and therefore the system capacity can be increased.
*c. The SINR after a cell reselection or handover of a UE is always improved when a range expansion bias is added to pico-cell link qualities for that UE.
d. Time-domain ICIC technique is used to reduce the interference where some of the macro-cell subframes are blanked to reduce the interference to the pico-cell so that it can schedule users in these subframes.
e. A poorly configured RACH may result in higher call setup and handover delays due to frequent RACH collisions. 

9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Automatic Neighbor Relation (ANR) function relieves the network operator from manually managing relations between neighboring cells.
b. Objective of mobility load balancing optimization SON feature is to counteract local traffic load imbalance between neighboring cells by adjusting the cell reselection/handover parameters.
*c. The parameters like adjusting the cell reselection/handover parameters for load balancing is communicated among the neighboring eNBs using the S1 interface.
d. The eNB (client) sends a ‘RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST’ message to request a load report from some of its neighbors. This information can be used for adjustment of the coverage area and off-loading UEs among neighboring cells.
e. In LTE Rel. 9 booster small-area cells placed on top of macrocells can be switched on/off depending on the traffic demand in that cell. This provides energy savings. 

Ch. 27-32: LTE-Advanced

1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Peak data rate of LTE-Advanced is 500 Mbps in downlink and 250 Mbps in uplink.
b. Main features of LTE-Advanced include carrier aggregation, enhanced downlink multiple antenna transmission, uplink multiple antenna transmission, relaying, and support for HetNet deployments.
c. LTE-Advanced supports carrier aggregation with up to 100 MHz aggregate bandwidth.
d. In Rel. 10 maximum number of downlink MIMO layers supported is 8.
e. UEs from Release 8 will still have service in LTE advanced networks. 

2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Control channel in carrier aggregation comes from a primary cell carrier.
b. Up to four secondary cells carriers (with no PDCCH) can be aggregated through carrier aggregation in LTE-Advanced.
c. CSI-RSs enable the UE to estimate the CSI for multiple cells rather than just its serving cell, to support future multicell cooperative transmission schemes.
*d. In LTE-Advanced, the maximum bandwidth is up to 1 GHz.
e. Carrier aggregation helps in efficient utilization of fragmented spectrum. 

3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A relay expands the coverage or increases the capacity of a macro-cellular network.
*b. Relays work on the basis of amplify-and-forward while the repeaters work on basis of decode-and-forward.
c. Repeaters are operated independently from RAN.
d. Typical use cases for relaying are capacity boost, cell coverage extension, indoor coverage enhancement and dead spot mitigation.
e. Repeaters can already be implemented with Rel-8 of LTE. 

4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Enhanced inter-cell interference coordination (eICIC) uses almost blank subframes (ABS) to protect victim users in HetNet deployments.
*b. ABS information is typically exchanged between eNB and pico eNB over the S1 interface.
c. Minimization of drive tests (MDT) aims to replace most of drive test campaigns by automatic collection of UE measurements.
d. Different types of MDTs are: logged MDT and immediate MDT.
e. Machine type communications in LTE can be used in smart grids. 