Points: 11.2 Title: Module 4 User Plane Protocols
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a.  Radio resource control (RRC) is an important part of user plane protocols. 
b. At a transmitter side, each protocol layer in LTE receives a service data unit (SDU) from an upper layer, and delivers a protocol data unit (PDU) to the lower unit. 
c. Packet data convergence protocol in user plane handles header compression/decompression, security functions, handover functions, and discard of user plane data due to timeout.
d.  During seamless handover, no context has to be transferred between source/target eNBs.
e.  Seamless handover is used for applications which are reasonably tolerant of losses but less tolerant of delay, such as voice services. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 4 User Plane Protocols
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Lossless handover uses sequence numbers embedded into PDCP data PDUs to ensure that they are delivered in sequence.
b.  Lossless handover is used for delay tolerant services, such as file download. 
*c.  Lossless handover does not impact the throughput of a link (when compared to seamless handover). 
d.  During a lossless handover, some packets may need to be transferred from the source eNB to a target eNB. 
e.  Lossless handover is applied for user plane radio bearers that are mapped on RLC acknowledge mode (AM). 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 4 User Plane Protocols
3. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a.  Radio link control (RLC) is located between PDCP and MAC layers. 
b. Main functions of RLC include segmentation and reassembly of upper layer packets, retransmission to recover from packet losses, and reordering of packets for in-sequence reception after HARQ operation. 
c.  Only one RLC entity exists per radio bearer. 
d.  RLC has three modes: transparent mode, unacknowledged mode, and acknowledge mode. 
*e.  Transparent mode of RLC supports HARQ operation. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 4 User Plane Protocols
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Unacknowledged mode in RLC is typically used by delay-sensitive error-tolerant applications. 
b.  Most important feature of acknowledge mode in RLC is the support for retransmissions. 
c.  Acknowledged mode is mainly utilized by error-sensitive delay-tolerant non-real-time applications, such as web browsing, file download, and streaming (if delay requirement is not too stringent). 
*d.  Radio resource control (RRC) messages in control plane typically use transparent mode in RLC. 
e.  While there may be multiple RLC entities per UE, only one medium access control (MAC) entity exists per UE.  

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 4 User Plane Protocols
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Main functions of the MAC layer are related to multiplexing of data from different bearers. 
b.  Goal of the MAC layer is to achieve negotiated QoS for each bearer.  
c. MAC layer decides the amount of data that can be transmitted from each radio bearer, instructs the RLC about the size of packets to provide, and (in the uplink) reports the eNB of the buffered data at a UE. 
d.  Random access, scheduling, timing advance, discontinuous reception (DRC) are all handled at the MAC layer. 
*e.  To enable continuous transmission, up to 16 HARQ processes are used in parallel at the MAC layer, using a multi-process stop-and-wait (SAW) HARQ operation. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 4 User Plane Protocols
6. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a. During SAW HARQ, upon transmission of a transport block, a transmitter awaits feedback (ACK/NACK message) from a receiver before its next transmission. 
*b. In a multi-process SAW HARQ, each HARQ process is responsible for a separate SAW operation with common buffer. 
c. There are two types of HARQ depending on when the retransmissions occur: synchronous HARQ and asynchronous HARQ. 
d. In synchronous HARQ, retransmissions for each process happen at pre-defined times relative to initial transmission instant to reduce signaling overhead. 
e. In an asynchronous HARQ, retransmissions can occur at any time relative to initial transmission, which allows more flexibility in scheduling. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 4 User Plane Protocols
7. Which of the following statements is not correct?  
*a.  The transport channels handle the communication between MAC and RLC, while logical channels handle the communication between MAC and PHY. 
b. Downlink transport channels include broadcast channel, downlink shared channel, paging channel, and multicast channel. 
c. Control logical channels include broadcast control channel (delivers the system information), paging control channel, common control channel (cell-wide), multicast control channel, and dedicated control channel (UE-specific). 
d.  Details of scheduling algorithms are not standardized in LTE and are left to eNB implementation; only the signaling support for scheduling is standardized. 
e.  An eNB may allocate downlink/uplink radio resources to a UE based on the downlink data buffered in the eNB and the buffer status reports received from the UEs. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 4 User Plane Protocols
8. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a.  There are two scheduling modes in LTE: dynamic scheduling, and semi-persistent scheduling. 
b.  Dynamic scheduling messages (assignment messages for the allocation of downlink transmission resources, and grant messages for the allocation of uplink transmission resources) are handled through PDCCH channel in LTE. 
c.  For dynamic scheduling in LTE, assignment / grant messages are valid only for a specified subframe (1 ms duration). 
d.  With semi-persistent scheduling, resources can be allocated periodically to a UE for a longer time duration than one subframe. 
*e.  Semi-persistent scheduling is useful for services such as web-browsing and file download. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 4 User Plane Protocols
9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In the uplink, an eNB should know whether the UE has uplink data to transmit; therefore buffer status reports are sent from the UEs to the eNBs for assisting in uplink scheduling decisions at the eNB. 
b. When a UE is not allocated with uplink radio resources but has data to transmit, the UE uses the random access procedure. 
*c.  Uplink timing alignment ensures that UEs’ uplink transmissions are synchronized at the eNB; this is achieved by the UEs closer to the eNB transmitting at an earlier time than the UEs that are far away from the eNB.
d. Discontinuous reception can be configured for a UE during RRC_CONNECTED mode, so that it does not always need to monitor downlink channels. 
e.  A longer DRX cycle is better for battery savings, while a shorter DRX cycle is better for achieving lower latency and faster response by the UE when the data transfer is resumed. 