Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a.  OFDM requires complex equalization techniques due to FFT/IFFT operations involved. 
b.  In OFDM, channel over each subcarrier’s bandwidth is assumed to be flat. 
c.  OFDM results in spectrum savings compared to a classical multicarrier system due to overlapping (but orthogonal) subcarriers. 
d.  No guard band is required in OFDM for separating subcarriers.
e.  Subcarrier spacing in OFDM is adjusted in a way to guarantee orthogonality. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. OFDM benefits from the use of channel coding and HARQ to combat with deep fading on the individual narrow-band subcarriers. 
b. A problem with high-rate data streams is that in multipath channels with large delay spread, complex equalization techniques are required to combat with inter-symbol-interference (ISI) problem.  
*c. OFDM uses very large subcarrier bandwidths to combat with ISI.
d. OFDM converts a high-rate data stream into M parallel low-rate data streams (serial-to-parallel conversion), each of which is modulated at different subcarriers. 
e. Time-duration of each subcarrier in OFDM is approximately increased by M (number of subcarriers), so that the symbol duration is significantly longer than the channel delay spread. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. After serial to parallel conversion, bits to be transmitted are mapped onto complex symbols, such as QPSK, 16-QAM, and 64-QAM. 
b. Before getting the IFFT of complex symbols that are mapped on OFDM subcarriers, zero padding is applied to edge subcarriers in order to comply with spectral mask requirements. 
*c. Cyclic prefix (CP) is added to an OFDM signal before the IFFT block, and helps to combat multipath effects. 
d. The receiver removes the CP before getting the FFT of the received samples. 
e. Use of FFT / IFFT greatly reduces the transmitter/receiver complexity, compared to bank of sinusoids approach. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A digital modulation scheme modifies three parameters of a sinusoidal signal: amplitude (amplitude shift keying -- ASK), frequency (frequency shift keying -- FSK), and phase (phase shift keying -- PSK). 
b. In OFDM, a combination of ASK/PSK is used; with quadrature amplitude modulation, both the amplitude and phase of a signal are changed to carry the transmitted bits. 
*c. Since it carries larger number of bits, 64-QAM is preferable over 16-QAM for all possible values of signal-to-interference plus noise ratios (SINRs). 
d. OFDM is sensitive to carrier frequency offsets (CFOs) due to the "sinc" shape of its subcarriers in frequency domain. 
e. Use of a CP is preferable over the use of a guard-band (nothing transmitted), since, in addition to mitigating ISI effects, use of a CP also enables simple equalization at the receiver. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Use of the CP in OFDM results in a circular convolution between the channel impulse response and the transmitted OFDM signal.
b. Due to the circular convolution property, one-tap equalization becomes possible at the receiver. 
c. Channel estimation can compensate for rotation and scaling effects due to the multipath channel. 
d. Peak to average power ratio (PAPR) is a major drawback of OFDM.
*e. PAPR problem in OFDM can be handled through using larger FFT sizes.

Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  Due to PAPR, OFDM signals may suffer from non-linear distortions, yielding out-of-band emissions and in-band corruption. 
b.  In typical power amplifiers, output signal does not scale linearly with input signal after a threshold input power. 
c.  PAPR problem in OFDM can be reduced through a clipping technique, where large values of time domain OFDM signal are clipped to a pre-defined level. 
*d.  The main reason for the carrier frequency offset problems in OFDM is the multipath channel.   
e.  Typically, frequency synchronization errors larger than few percent of the subcarrier bandwidth are untolerable in OFDM systems. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
7. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a.  A single path channel results in a Doppler shift with a specific Doppler frequency.  
*b.  Doppler spread causes timing offset problems in OFDM.  
c.  Doppler shift (and hence the carrier frequency offset) scales linearly with a UE’s velocity. 
d.  If Doppler spread becomes larger, higher order modulation schemes can not be accommodated. 
e.  If received OFDM signals arrive within the cyclic prefix, no inter-carrier-interference occurs, but a phase shift is introduced (which can be recovered through channel estimation). 

Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Use of a guard time (rather than a CP) in OFDM does not handle the inter-carrier-interference problem, even if all the multipath signals arrive within the guard time. 
b. Multiuser diversity in OFDMA significantly improves the aggregate spectral efficiency. 
c. CP dimensioning in OFDM mainly depends on the duration of the channel impulse response. 
*d. Use of a larger CP in OFDM always improves the throughput. 
e. A larger CP should be used in larger cells for improved performance. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. OFDM subcarrier spacing design should depend on the amount of potential Doppler spread.  
*b. For a fixed number of OFDM subcarriers, a larger subcarrier spacing means also a longer symbol duration. 
c. OFDM symbol duration should be large enough to minimize overhead w.r.t. CP duration, but also small enough to ensure that channel does not vary within the OFDM symbol duration. 
d. OFDM parameter dimensioning depends on the environment, cell sizes, carrier frequencies, and employed bandwidths. 
e. LTE can support UE speeds as high as 500 km/h, and cell sizes up to 100 km.

Points: 10 Title: Module 5 OFDMA
10. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Subcarrier spacing in LTE is set to 15 KHz, which is a sufficiently large spacing to support high UE speeds.  
*b. LTE can adaptively choose among a large number of CP durations depending on the environment, ranging from 1 microseconds up to 30 microseconds. 
c. In case of multimedia broadcast single-frequency network (MBSFN) configuration, extended CP duration  can be employed due to larger RMS delay spreads of the wireless channel. 
d. In the normal CP mode, one slot in OFDM (0.5 ms) is composed of seven OFDM symbols. 
e. In case of 20 MHz systems, FFT size in OFDM, while implementation dependent, can be assumed to be 2048. 