
Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  There are three resource dimensions that can be utilized by LTE: time, frequency, and space. 
b.  Spatial dimension is measured in ‘layers’, which are accessed by multiple antenna ports at the eNB.
*c.  Same reference symbol (RS) is used for all the antenna ports by a UE to estimate the radio channel. 
d.  For each antenna port, largest unit in time domain is a 10 ms radio frame.
e.  A radio frame is divided into ten 1-ms subframes. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Each subframe in LTE is split into two 0.5 ms slots. 
b. Each slot of 0.5 ms in LTE is composed of 7 OFDM symbols in normal CP mode.  
*c. In frequency domain, resources are grouped into 10 subcarriers (each of which is 18 KHz), yielding a bandwidth of 180 KHz for a resource block.
d. Smallest unit in an LTE frame structure is a resource element, which is a single subcarrier in a single OFDM symbol. 
e. One resource block in LTE is composed of 84 resource elements in normal CP mode, and 72 resource elements in extended CP mode. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In TDD operation mode, different downlink and uplink duty cycles can be achieved through different TDD configurations, which makes it possible to dynamically adapt into variations in downlink and uplink traffic. 
b. A guard period between downlink/uplink subframes in TDD mode allows the implementation of timing advance operation. 
*c. A 5 ms switching periodicity in LTE introduces a larger delay for data transmission, when compared to 10 ms switching periodicity, . 
d. Scrambling block in LTE serves the purpose of interference rejection, and uses Gold codes. 
e. A codeword in LTE is formed after addition of cyclic redundancy check (CRC) and channel coding bits to the data bits to be transmitted. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a.  In LTE, a UE has to go through the cell search procedure before gaining an initial access to an LTE cell. 
b.  Cell search process is necessary to acquire critical system parameters, achieve time/frequency synchronization, demodulate downlink signals, and transmit uplink signals with correct timing advance.
c.  In time domain, both symbol and frame timing acquisition is achieved through cell search, which e.g. is useful for setting correct DFT window position. 
d.  Carrier frequency synchronization is necessary to reduce or eliminate the effect of frequency errors due to oscillator mismatch or Doppler.
*e.  Detection of the secondary synchronization sequence (SSS) enables decoding of the physical layer ID of a cell. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Before detection of the PSS and the SSS, a UE first has to detect the reference symbols (RSs).
b. Cell search procedure in LTE first requires the detection of primary synchronization sequence (PSS), which makes it possible to detect the SSS. 
c. Correctly detecting the SSS also yields the information about the cyclic prefix length of the transmission, as well as whether the transmission is in TDD or FDD mode.  
d. After detecting the PSS and SSS, a UE is able to decode the physical broadcast channel (PBCH).  
e. For handover or cell reselection purposes, UE can also detect the PSS and SSS of the neighboring cells. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In the FDD mode, PSS is always transmitted at the last OFDM symbol of 1st and 11th slots. 
b. In the FDD mode, SSS is always transmitted in the symbol immediately preceding the PSS, which enables coherent detection of the SSS relative to the PSS. 
c. In the FDD mode, the assumption for coherent detection of SSS relative to the PSS is that the channel should be assumed approximately constant within a 2 symbol duration. 
d. In TDD mode, PSS is always transmitted at the 3rd OFDM symbol of 3rd and 13th slots, and SSS is located three symbols earlier. 
*e. Coherent detection of SSS is easier with TDD operation than the FDD operation. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. After detection of the PSS, precise location of the SSS is still uncertain, and requires a blind detection procedure. 
*b. Detection of PSS and SSS requires the information about the bandwidth used by the cell. 
c. Blind detection involves checking of two different CP durations (short and long) and two different duplexing modes (FDD and TDD) for finding the exact SSS location (i.e., checking a total of 4 possible SSS positions).
d. PSS and SSS are always transmitted at the central 6 resource blocks in frequency (72 subcarriers).
e. PSS and SSS can be detected using a size-64 FFT operation. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Particular PSS/SSS combination used by a cell also characterizes the physical layer cell identity of the transmitting cell. 
b. 3 unique PSS sequences indicate the cell identity within a group, while 168 SSS sequences indicate the identity of the group; hence, a total of 504 cells can be represented with different combinations of PSS and SSS in LTE.
*c. In LTE, PSS uses M-sequences, while SSS uses Zadoff-Chu sequences.
d. Zadoff-Chu sequences have a constant amplitude. 
e. Zadoff-Chu sequences have a zero autocorrelation zone. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Zadoff-Chu sequences have low peak-to-average power ratio. 
*b. Cyclic autocorrelation of a Zadoff-Chu sequence is a constant value for all cyclic shifts. 
c. Absolute value of the cyclic cross-correlation of two Zadoff-Chu sequences is constant value.
d. Zadoff-Chu sequences have a constant amplitude. 
e. PSS in LTE is constructed from Zadoff-Chu sequences of length 63, using three different roots which are relatively prime with respect to 63.

Points: 10 Title: Module 6 Introduction to Downlink Physical Layer Design, Synchronization, and Cell Search
10. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Zero autocorrelation zone property of Zadoff-Chu sequences help to combat against multipath effects during synchronization. 
b. During non-coherent detection of a PSS, no prior knowledge of channel is required, but only the channel statistics are utilized. 
*c. Non-coherent detection can only be used for PSS, while coherent detection can be used for detecting both PSS and SSS. 
d. Performance of a non-coherent detection of a PSS or an SSS is degraded if the coherence bandwidth of the channel is less than six resource blocks. 
e. Physical layer cell identity (PCI) of a cell is given by 3 * (SSS-ID) + PSS-ID, where SSS-ID denotes the physical layer cell identity group number, while PSS-ID denotes the physical layer identity number.