Points: 11.2 Title: Module 12 Uplink PHY Design and Uplink Reference Symbols
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. SC-FDMA is advantageous over 3G CDMA technology, since SC-FDMA maintains better orthogonality of uplink transmissions from different users due to the use of a cyclic prefix. 
*b. SC-FDMA transmits all the symbols over a single carrier and shorter symbol durations.
c. SC-FDMA transmitter/receiver includes additional DFT/IDFT blocks over an OFDMA transmitter/receiver. 
d. DFT Spread OFDM is an alternative name for SC-FDMA. 
e. Size of the DFT at a SC-FDMA transmitter is typically lower than the size of the IFFT at the transmitter. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 12 Uplink PHY Design and Uplink Reference Symbols
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Other than the outputs of the DFT block, IFFT block at an uplink SC-FDMA transmitter receives all zeros as inputs.  
b. A UE learns the frequency resources to schedule its uplink SC-FDMA transmission by reading the PDCCH transmission of the eNB in the downlink. 
*c. SC-FDMA uses a guard band instead of a cyclic prefix. 
d. A SC-FDMA transmission has a lower PAPR and cubic metric when compared with an OFDMA transmission. 
e. SC-FDMA with 16-QAM modulation has a larger PAPR than a SC-FDMA with QPSK modulation. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 12 Uplink PHY Design and Uplink Reference Symbols
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. One of the benefits of SC-FDMA over 3G CDMA is that it enables simple, single-tap frequency-domain equalization. 
b. Output of the FFT block in a SC-FDMA receiver is followed by several parallel IDFT blocks, each corresponding to a different UE. 
c. A localized SC-FDMA transmission has lower PAPR than a distributed SC-FDMA transmission. 
d. Distributed SC-FDMA better benefits from frequency diversity (and hence has a better spectral efficiency) than a localized SC-FDMA. 
*e. In a SC-FDMA receiver, frequency domain equalization is performed after the IDFT block. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 12 Uplink PHY Design and Uplink Reference Symbols
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. All SC-FDMA transmissions in LTE Releases 8, 9 are based on localized SC-FDMA. 
b. In Release 10 of LTE, clustered DFT-S-FDMA is introduced, which allows partitioning of a single SC-FDMA transmission into multiple clusters. 
c. Clustered DFT-S-FDMA improves the channel dependent scheduling performance compared to localized SC-FDMA, but has a larger PAPR. 
d. In LTE, SC-FDMA uses the same parameterization as OFDMA. 
*e. In the uplink, RRC and Kaiser windows are mandated as pulse shaping filters for SC-FDMA. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 12 Uplink PHY Design and Uplink Reference Symbols
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. One of the roles of an uplink reference symbol is to enable channel estimation to help in coherent demodulation. 
*b. One other role of uplink reference symbols in an FDD based duplexing is to estimate the channel quality for  downlink scheduling purposes. 
c. One other role of uplink reference symbols is to estimate the direction-of-arrival to support downlink beamforming. 
d. There are two types of uplink reference symbols, Demodulation RS (DM-RS) and Sounding RS (SRS). 
e. Uplink reference symbols can be used for timing estimation purposes.

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 12 Uplink PHY Design and Uplink Reference Symbols
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. DM-RS is primarily used for channel estimation for coherent demodulation. 
b. SRS is primarily used for channel quality determination to enable frequency selective scheduling in the uplink. 
*c. DM-RS occupies a separate bandwidth than PUSCH and PUCCH. 
d. SRS can occupy a different bandwidth than UE data to enable wideband channel sounding. 
e. Most uplink reference symbols are based on Zadoff-Chu sequences. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 12 Uplink PHY Design and Uplink Reference Symbols
7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. SRS can be transmitted with different transmission periods, ranging between 2 ms to 320 ms.
b. Transmitting SRS more frequently helps in obtaining more up to date information about the uplink channel, but introduces more overhead.
*c. There can be SRS transmission from only one user at a given subframe, and SRS transmissions can not be multiplexed from multiple users in that subframe.
d. If the uplink channel is not changing frequently, it is better to transmit SRS less often. 
e. Full bandwidth SRS transmission gives most comprehensive information over the whole bandwidth for scheduling purposes; however, UEs far away from the eNB may have difficulties to transmit at maximum power over the whole bandwidth. 

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 12 Uplink PHY Design and Uplink Reference Symbols
8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. One of the roles of Uplink Reference Symbols is channel quality estimation for uplink scheduling. 
b. DeModulation RS (DM-RS) is related to transmissions of uplink data on the Physical Uplink Shared CHannel (PUSCH) and/or the Physical Uplink Control CHannel (PUCCH).
*c. Sounding RS (SRS) is primarily used for channel estimation for coherent demodulation.
d. Sounding RS (SRS) is not related to PUSCH/PUCCH transmissions.
e. In LTE, UL RSs are time multiplexed with data and DM-RS occupies the same bandwidth as PUSCH and PUCCH.

Points: 11.2 Title: Module 12 Uplink PHY Design and Uplink Reference Symbols
9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Most uplink reference signals in LTE are based on Zadoff-Chu sequences.
b. DFT spreading is not applied to the RS sequence in LTE uplink.
c. Orthogonality among users is maintained as long as the cyclic shifts are longer than the channel impulse response.
d. LTE may operate in RS sequence hopping or RS sequence planning modes in the uplink.
*e. Long-block DM-RS (single symbol per subframe) yields a better block error rate at high UE velocities compared to short-block DM-RS (two symbols per subframe). 