Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The uplink physical channels are: Physical Random Access Channel (PRACH), Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH), Physical Uplink Control Channel (PUCCH).
b. During the PUSCH processing, the OFDM 0.5 subcarrier shift is used to distribute the distortion caused by the DC carrier to multiple subcarriers.
*c. PUSHC uses only frequency selective scheduling. 
d. In frequency selective scheduling PUSCH typically uses SRS to choose the best RBs to schedule as well as the corresponding MCS.
e. Larger SRS bandwidth gives more alternatives for potentially good channels while smaller SRS bandwidth improves channel estimation on the sounded RBs.

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Physical Uplink Control Channels are transmitted at the edge of the system bandwidth.
*b. Control signaling from multiple UEs cannot be multiplexed in a single PUCCH region.
c. PUCCH positions maximize the frequency diversity.
d. PUCCH may use frequency domain and/or time domain code multiplexing.
e. In the case of frequency domain code multiplexing different cyclic time shifts of a base sequence is used.

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Two types of scheduling in PUSCH are: frequency-selective scheduling which makes use of good channel qualities of UEs, and non-frequency-selective scheduling that aims to benefit from frequency diversity.
b. Frequency selective PUSCH scheduling typically uses SRS to choose the best RBs to schedule, as well as the corresponding MCS.
c. Larger SRS bandwidths provide more alternatives for potentially good channels.
d. Smaller SRS bandwidths improve channel estimation on the sounded RBs, but results in missing channel information at certain RBs (which may be good quality).
*e. SRS can be transmitted at any of the symbols in a SC-FDMA subframe.

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. The PUSCH typically uses the PMI feedback to choose the best RBs to schedule, as well as the corresponding MCS.
b. The PUCHH being at the band edges (rather than center) minimizes Out-of-band (OOB) emissions - PUCCH serves as a guard band to a wide-band PUSCH transmission.
c. Smaller SRS bandwidths: improves channel estimation on the sounded RBs, but results in missing channel information at certain RBs (which may be good quality).
d. The PUCHH being at the band edges (rather than center) maximizes the UE bandwidth (need to preserve the single carrier nature of transmission).
e. Uplink control signaling from multiple UEs can be multiplexed in a single PUCCH region.

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Main goal of the Random Access Channel (RACH)  is to establish UL time synchronization for a UE, which has lost or not yet acquired uplink synchronization.
b. RACH can be used for ACK/NACK downlink data transmission to an out-of-synch UE.
c. UEs randomly choose and transmit a random access preamble (ZC-sequence) for RACH transmissions.
d. The eNB can prevent contention (collision) by allocating a dedicated signature to a UE (contention-free RACH).
*e. During contention-based random access, the UE transmits the random access response to the eNode B. 

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. When a preamble is detected within a given opportunity, eNB signals the timing adjustment information and uplink resource allocation to the UE. 
*b. The UEs transmit random preamble signature during contention-free random access.
c. PRACH resource configuration has 16 total different resource configurations, with different subframe patterns for the random access opportunities.
d. There are smaller number of PRACH opportunities at smaller bandwidths, which reduces PRACH overhead at the cost of longer waiting times for the UEs.
e. Orthogonal PRACH slots can be used at neighboring cells to minimize collusions during RACH procedure.

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Initial timing advance is determined during the random access procedure. 
b. One of the goals of power control is to balance the need for high transmission power to achieve a given QOS and to reduce the interference to neighboring cells. 
*c. LTE only uses open-loop power control. 
d. Closed-loop power control is used only when the UE’s own estimate of required power settings is not satisfactory. 
e. Closed-loop power control enables faster adaptation of the transmit power to fit into instantaneous channel conditions. 

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
8. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Due to the UE’s movement, we can expect changes in propagation channels and Doppler shifts. 
b. Exact procedures for estimating the timing advance are implementation-dependent. 
c. eNB can measure any useful signal for estimating a timing advance. 
d. Intra-cell interference is less critical in LTE than in WCDMA. 
*e. Timing-advance ensures that UEs at the cell edge transmit at a later time than the UEs closer to the eNB for synchronous reception at the eNB.

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. In LTE uplink, main goal of the Random Access Chanel (RACH) is to establish UL time synchronization for a UE, which has lost or not yet acquired uplink synchronization.
b. RACH can be used during the handover procedure, which requires a low latency. 
c. eNB can prevent contention (collusion) by allocating a dedicated signature to a UE.
d. During Random Access Response (RAR), eNB correlates the received signal in each RACH opportunity with ALL possible preamble sequences.
*e. Latency of contention- based approach is predictable.

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
10. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Timing control is critical for uplink intra-cell multiple access.
b. Power control is critical for maintaining the UE’s QoS, maintaining acceptable UE battery life, and controlling inter-cell interference.
*c. LTE uses open-loop power control only when UE’s own estimate of required power setting is not satisfactory. 
d. Initial timing advance is determined during the random access procedure.
e. During timing advance updates, eNB may measure any useful signal received from the UE for estimation purposes (SRS, DM-RS, CQI, etc.).

Points: 9.1 Title: Module 13 PHY Channel Structure, Random Access, and Transmission Procedures for Uplink
11. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Contention-based random access has several stages: preamble transmission, random access response, layer 2 and layer 3 message, and contention resolution message.
b. The eNB can prevent collisions for a UE by allocating a dedicated signature to the UE in the contention-free RACH procedure.
c. The contention-based RACH procedure can be used for the reestablishment of the connectivity after a radio link failure.
*d. The initial preamble transmission in RACH happens with closed-loop power control with a fractional path-loss compensation.
e. Random access preamble formats may adopt different CP durations to combat with multipath, and may use repetition of the random access sequence to increase the transmission distance (coverage) of RACH.