Points: 10 Title: Module 15/16 LTE-Advanced and 5G
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Peak data rate of LTE-Advanced is 500 Mbps in downlink and 250 Mbps in uplink.
b. Main features of LTE-Advanced include carrier aggregation, enhanced downlink multiple antenna transmission, uplink multiple antenna transmission, relaying, and support for HetNet deployments.
c. LTE-Advanced supports carrier aggregation with up to 100 MHz aggregate bandwidth.
d. In Rel. 10 maximum number of downlink MIMO layers supported is 8.
e. UEs from Release 8 will still have service in LTE advanced networks. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 15/16 LTE-Advanced and 5G
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Control channel in carrier aggregation comes from a primary cell carrier.
b. Up to four secondary cells carriers (with no PDCCH) can be aggregated through carrier aggregation in LTE-Advanced.
c. CSI-RSs enable the UE to estimate the CSI for multiple cells rather than just its serving cell, to support future multicell cooperative transmission schemes.
*d. In LTE-Advanced, the maximum bandwidth is up to 1 GHz.
e. Carrier aggregation helps in efficient utilization of fragmented spectrum. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 15/16 LTE-Advanced and 5G
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A relay expands the coverage or increases the capacity of a macro-cellular network.
*b. Relays work on the basis of amplify-and-forward while the repeaters work on basis of decode-and-forward.
c. Repeaters are operated independently from RAN.
d. Typical use cases for relaying are capacity boost, cell coverage extension, indoor coverage enhancement and dead spot mitigation.
e. Repeaters can already be implemented with Rel-8 of LTE. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 15/16 LTE-Advanced and 5G
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Enhanced inter-cell interference coordination (eICIC) uses almost blank subframes (ABS) to protect victim users in HetNet deployments.
*b. ABS information is typically exchanged between eNB and pico eNB over the S1 interface.
c. Minimization of drive tests (MDT) aims to replace most of drive test campaigns by automatic collection of UE measurements.
d. Different types of MDTs are: logged MDT and immediate MDT.
e. Machine type communications in LTE can be used in smart grids. 