Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Radio Resource Control (RRC)  is the name of the protocol through which E-UTRAN controls a UE's behavior. 
b. NAS control protocols handle PLMN selection, tracking area update, paging, authentication, and EPS bearer establishment at the evolved packet core (EPC). 
*c. RRC_CONNECTED is the RRC state in which a UE performs cell selection and reselection.
d. Cell reselection process during RRC_IDLE takes into account the priority of each applicable frequency/RAT, SINR, and the cell status (whether a cell is barred or reserved).
e. System information (SI) transmitted by an eNB includes parameters to control cell (re)selection process during RRC_IDLE mode.

Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. RRC_CONNECTED facilitates the transfer of unicast downlink/uplink data through shared data channels.
*b. Discontinuous reception (DRX) helps a UE to improve the data rate during RRC_CONNECTED mode. 
c. A control channel in LTE facilitates dynamic allocation of transmission resources in time / frequency. 
d. During RRC_CONNECTED, following information are provided by a UE to the network: UE buffer status, UE downlink channel quality, and neighboring cell measurement information. 
e. Mobility during RRC_IDLE mode is UE-controlled (cell re-selection), while mobility during RRC_CONNECTED mode is E-UTRAN controlled (handover). 

Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
3. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
*a. A UE always selects the cell with the best link quality for camping regardless of the priorities of the cells. 
b. In most cases, link quality is the primary criteria for both cell selection and handover. 
c. Mobility mechanisms in RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED modes should be consistent to avoid ping-pongs. 
d. For inter-frequency and inter-RAT cell reselection, UE capability, subscriber type, and call type may be important criteria to select the best cell. 
e. Cell-specific default values of priorities for different frequency bands are provided to a UE from E-UTRAN through the system information (SI) messages. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. During connected mode, E-UTRAN (not the UE) decides to which cell a UE should hand over in order to maintain the radio link. 
b. E-UTRAN, while deciding which cell to hand-over a user, takes into account factors including radio link quality, UE capability, subscriber type, and access restrictions. 
c. E-UTRAN configures a UE to report measurements of the candidate target cells for handover purposes. 
*d. E-UTRAN can not force a UE to make a handover to a particular cell without any measurement reports from that UE. 
e. LTE is based on hard-handover, where a UE can not be connected to two cells simultaneously (for handover purposes).  

Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. During handover, the serving eNB for a UE requests a target eNB to prepare for a handover. 
*b. Source eNB is not allowed to prepare more than one target eNB for handover.  
c. Source eNB provides RRC context information about the UE's capabilities  to the target cell during handover preparation. 
d. LTE also supports a UE by itself to decide connecting to a target cell and request the connection to be continued (only after loss of the connection to the source cell). 
e. In a successful handover, target eNB sends handover command to the source eNB, which is passed to the UE through RRCConnectionReconfiguration message. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
6. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a. E-UTRAN can configure a UE to report measurement information for supporting UE mobility. 
b. Possible measurement configuration elements signaled by the E-UTRAN to the UE (through RRCConnectionReconfiguration message) are as follows: measurement objects, reporting configurations, measurement identities, quantity configurations, and measurement gaps. 
c. A measurement object defines where a certain UE should perform measurements (e.g., carrier frequencies, cells, etc.)
d. Reporting configurations signaled in a RRCConnectionReconfiguration message by the E-UTRAN include the criteria on when to trigger a measurement report. 
*e. A UE can only provide measurement reports requested by the E-UTRAN, and can not provide measurement reports not listed by the E-UTRAN (but detected by the UE).

Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
7. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a. A UE triggers a measurement report event when one or more cells meet a specified entry condition. 
b. A UE can trigger a measurement report if the serving cell link quality becomes better or worse than an absolute threshold. 
*c. In addition to events A1-A5 for measurement report triggering within the same RAT, there are also five other events B1-B5 for measurement report triggering for inter-RAT mobility. 
d. E-UTRAN may influence the entry condition to a measurement reporting event, e.g. through setting SINR thresholds or offsets. 
e. An entry condition should be satisfied at least for the duration of a time-to-trigger before a UE can send a measurement report to the serving eNB. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
8. Which of the following statements is not correct? 
a. In LTE, access stratum provides the information on available public line mobile networks (PLMNs), while the non-access stratum handles PLMN selection. 
*b. When a UE camps on a selected cell, it acquires the system information (SI) broadcasted by the camped cell, as well as the system information broadcasted by all the neighboring cells. 
c. During cell selection, UE searches for the best cell on all the supported carrier frequencies and all the supported RATs. 
d. One of the important requirements for cell selection procedure at the UE is that it should not take too long. 
e. The network can identify which frequencies/RATs to measure in order to narrow down candidate cells for camping on. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
9. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Cell selection criterion in LTE is known as the Z-criterion, and it is fulfilled when the cell selection receive level and quality level are below a threshold. 
b. Cell selection parameters to be used by a UE are broadcast by the E-UTRAN in the SIB1 message. 
c. Once a UE camps on a suitable cell, it starts the cell reselection process. 
d. For cell re-selection, a UE first evaluates the frequencies of all RATs based on their priorities, and then compares the cells on relevant frequencies based on their radio link quality (using a ranking criterion), and finally verifies accessibility of a target cell for potentially camping on it. 
e. If camping on a certain cell is restricted, UE chooses the next best cell from the list of cells based on their radio link qualities. 

Points: 10 Title: Module 3 Control Plane Protocols
10. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. During cell ranking, a UE ranks intra-frequency cells and the cells on other frequencies (having equal priority and which fulfill the S-criterion) using a criterion known as R-criterion.
b. In the R-criterion, the reference signal received powers (RSRPs) of the serving and candidate cells (subject to biasing by individual hysterisis offsets) are ranked from the highest to the lowest. 
c. A UE selects the highest-ranked candidate cell which is ranked better than the serving cell for at least a threshold time duration.
*d. The cell reselection parameters are independent from the speed of a UE. 
e. UE speed in LTE is estimated from the number of cell reselections/handovers within a defined period, and can be one of the three categories: high-speed, normal-speed, and low-speed.