Points: 14.5 Title: Module 7 Reference Signals and Channel Estimation
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. LTE receivers require estimation of the channel for coherent detection of the transmitted symbols. 
b. Channel introduces phase rotation and scaling to the transmitted complex OFDM symbols, as long as the multipath replicas of the transmitted signal arrive within the cyclic prefix at the receiver. 
c. In order to coherently detect the transmitted symbols, known reference signals (with no data) need to be transmitted to enable channel estimation. 
*d. Common reference symbols (CRSs) in LTE are located at the four corners of a resource block. 
e. LTE uses reference symbols (RSs) for channel estimation, which are orthogonal to the data symbols. 

Points: 14.5 Title: Module 7 Reference Signals and Channel Estimation
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. After estimating the channels over known RSs, different interpolation techniques can be used based on these channel estimates, to obtain an estimate of the channel over the data symbols. 
b. Five different RSs in LTE downlink are common (cell-specific) reference symbols (CRSs), UE-specific RSs, MBSFN-specific RSs, positioning RSs, and channel state information (CSI) RSs. 
c. Different RS patterns are transmitted through different antenna ports in LTE. 
d. A UE does not differentiate whether a reference symbol transmitted through an antenna port comes from a single antenna or multiple antennas; the channel estimates obtained on that antenna port are used for all the data transmitted through that particular antenna port. 
*e. CRS can be used by the UEs to demodulate downlink control and data channels, generate CSI feedback, calculate RSRP/RSRQ, and realize beamforming to each specific UE. 

Points: 14.5 Title: Module 7 Reference Signals and Channel Estimation
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. The reason that different RSs are used for different antenna ports in LTE is that the observed channel at a UE would be different in different antenna ports. 
*b. With the FDD mode, an eNB may scale the number of antennas to an infinitely large number in future releases of LTE to significantly boost the downlink throughput.    
c. Considering Releases 8, 9, and 10, there are over 20 antenna ports combined in LTE. 
d. The placement of CRSs in the form of a diamond shape minimizes the mean square error of channel estimates. 
e. With the specified time/frequency separation of the CRSs in LTE, UE speeds up to ~500 km/hour, and RMS delay spread up to ~991 ns can be supported in LTE.

Points: 14.5 Title: Module 7 Reference Signals and Channel Estimation
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. CRSs on antenna ports 2, 3 in LTE cannot support as high UE velocities as the CRSs on antenna ports 0, 1. 
*b. All CRSs in LTE are modulated with BPSK for robustness and to achieve low PAPR. 
c. CRS unambiguously carries one of the 504 physical cell identities (PCIs). 
d. The CRS may be off-set in frequency to 6 unique positions depending on the value of the PCI, which prevents CRS collusions between CRSs for up to six adjacent cells. 
e. Power of the CRSs may be boosted to a value up to 6 dB larger than the data symbols. 

Points: 14.5 Title: Module 7 Reference Signals and Channel Estimation
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. If 4 antennas are used at an eNB, a UE may have to obtain four different channel estimates. 
b. A UE can be configured by the RRC to receive UE-specific RSs to enable beamforming. 
*c. Density of the Rel-8 UE-specific RSs is larger than the density of the CRSs with 4 antennas. 
d. With Rel-9 dual-layer beamforming, it is possible to transmit two spatial layers to one UE, or, single-layer transmission to two UEs. 
e. Channel characteristics between a transmitter and a receiver are affected by the number of transmit/receive antennas, transmission bandwidth, carrier frequency, cell configuration, and the speed difference between the eNB and the UE. 

Points: 14.5 Title: Module 7 Reference Signals and Channel Estimation
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Carrier frequencies and the system bandwidth affect the scattering nature of the channel. 
*b. In a wide sense stationary uncorrelated scattering (WSS-US) channel model, channel samples obtained at two different time instants corresponding to a given multipath component are uncorrelated. 
c. Cell deployment (size, location, etc.) affect the multipath characteristics, delay spread, and spatial correlation characteristics. 
d. A channel scattering function jointly captures the Doppler spectrum and power delay profile of a multipath channel. 
e. It is possible to observe a different Doppler spectrum over different multipath components in a WSS-US channel model. 

Points: 14.5 Title: Module 7 Reference Signals and Channel Estimation
7. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. A Doppler spectrum characterizes the frequency selectivity of a channel between a transmitter and a receiver. 
b. Knowledge about the time correlation, the frequency correlation, and the spatial correlation may improve the accuracy of a channel estimator at a receiver. 
c. An MMSE channel interpolator yields a better accuracy than a linear interpolator, at the expense of increased implementation complexity. 
d. With time-domain channel estimation, information on the correlation between consecutive  time-domain OFDM symbols can be used to jointly estimate the channels over multiple OFDM symbols. 
e. Channel estimation algorithms are implementation dependent and not standardized in LTE.