Points: 16.7 Title: Module 9 Link Adaptation and Channel Coding
1. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Link adaptation in LTE changes the transmitted information data rate dynamically to match the radio channel quality for each user
b. Link adaptation in the downlink is achieved through the use of channel quality indicator (CQI) transmitted from the UEs in the uplink. 
c. For enhancing link adaptation performance, CQI should be transmitted more frequently by the UEs, which comes at the expense of larger overhead. 
*d. How to implement link adaptation has been specifically defined in the LTE standard. 
e. Through link adaptation, same modulation and coding schemes (MCSs) are used in the downlink and the uplink; however, in the uplink, 64-QAM is possible only for the highest UE category. 

Points: 16.7 Title: Module 9 Link Adaptation and Channel Coding
2. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. For uplink link adaptation purposes, the eNB directly estimates the UE link quality through channel sounding (e.g., using sounding reference symbols), and no dedicated CQI messages are used. 
b. CQI feedback may also be used for scheduling decisions, and to declare radio link failure by a UE. 
*c. RSRP/RSRQ and CQI are always estimated over the same bandwidth. 
d. At good channel conditions, higher code rates are used, which have less overhead bits for error correction. 
e. A UE uses the same MCS on all the resource blocks within a given subframe, and frequency-dependent MCS selection is not supported in LTE. 

Points: 16.7 Title: Module 9 Link Adaptation and Channel Coding
3. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. Two different UEs at the same exact SINR may report different CQI levels to the eNB, depending on their capabilities. 
b. CQI is an indication of the highest MCS a UE can support, with a block error rate lower than 10%.
c. Highest MCS a UE may support in LTE is 64-QAM with a coding rate of 4/5 (1 coding bit for every 4 data bits). 
*d. CQI in LTE is a 3-bit indicator, to support a total of 8 different MCS levels. 
e. Spectral efficiency in LTE for different MCS levels varies between 0.15 bps/Hz (QPSK with a code rate of 0.076. and 5.55 bps/Hz (64-QAM with a code rate of 0.93. 

Points: 16.7 Title: Module 9 Link Adaptation and Channel Coding
4. Which of the following statements is not correct?
*a. Adaptive modulation and coding (AMC) in LTE assumes that the coherence time of the channel is very small. 
b. For high speed UEs, it is more likely that the CQI can become out-dated before it is used for selecting a MCS for a PDSCH transmission. 
c. More frequent reporting of CQI ensures that link quality information of the UEs are up to date at the eNB, at the expense of larger transmission overhead in the uplink.
d. Periodicity and frequency resolution of CQI are both controlled by the eNB. 
e. Periodic CQI are transmitted during physical uplink control channels (PUCCH), while aperiodic CQI are transmitted during physical uplink shared channels (PUSCH). 

Points: 16.7 Title: Module 9 Link Adaptation and Channel Coding
5. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A CQI report may be transmitted over the whole transmission bandwidth (wideband CQI), or, over a particular subband (may be configured by the eNB or selected by the UE). 
b. In addition to CQI feedback, UE may also transmit precoding matrix indicator (PMI) and rank indication (RI) feedback in the uplink, required by certain PDSCH transmission modes in the downlink. 
*c. LTE only uses convolutional codes as the channel coding method. 
d. Channel coding is typically a dominant source of complexity at a wireless receiver. 
e. A convolutional encoder of C(k,n,m) means that a shift register with m stages are employed, k information bits enter the shift register, and n information bits exit (with an encoding rate of R=k/n). 

Points: 16.7 Title: Module 9 Link Adaptation and Channel Coding
6. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a. A turbo decoder uses the principle of iterative decoding to achieve near Shannon-limit link-level capacity. 
*b. A turbo encoder consists of a concatenation of three convolutional encoders, linked by an interleaver. 
c. HARQ is supported both in the downlink and the uplink in LTE. 
d. FDD mode in LTE supports 8 stop-and-wait HARQ processes which run simultaneously. 
e. Typical round-trip-time in HARQ, where a downlink packet is transmitted, and an ACK/NACK message corresponding to that packet is received back from the receiver, is equal to 8 ms.